 rather than relying on unsystematic clinical experience healthcare professional be encourage to base clinical decision-making on the finding of scientific study .
 the evidence in evidence-based decision-making be usually understand to be empirically based with the finding of randomized clinical trial rct be consider one of the much robust form of evidence because it have the much objective way of eliminate bias .
 however other form of evidence where bias be much difficult to control observational or case study may be much appropriate for answer certain kind of research question .
 regardless of what research design be use careful systematic scientific scrutiny be use to determine effective diagnostic procedure and treatment .
 optimal patient care be then limited to this practice in order to minimize unnecessary treatment and control cost .
 while there be an expectation that healthcare provider will incorporate evidence into decision-making involve patient treatment until relatively recently there be no such expectation of the patient themselves .
 in the past treatment decision be entrust to the professional healthcare provider .
 much recently trend within healthcare be transform the patient role in treatment decision-making from one of passive recipient to one of much equal partner .
 an increase in an expansion in the number of viable treatment option available and the exponential growth of the internet and availability of health information have all contribute to great patient involvement in healthcare decision .
 evidence-informed patient choice eipc be a concept that be root in the principle of inform choice .
 in order to uphold the principle healthcare provider be obligate to ensure that patient be reasonably inform of the risk and benefit of a procedure prior to the patient give or withholding consent and be afford the opportunity to have concern and question address .
 scientific study determine the risk and benefit of different avenue of treatment or non-treatment .
 in order for patient to be inform regard treatment choice they require a reasonable understanding of both the advantage and disadvantage of available treatment .
 there be increase opportunity for oncology patient in particular to become involve in decision-making because of the variety of therapeutic option that be available for different cancer .
 much oncology patient want to be involve in decision-making and attain preferred role in decision-making lead to well quality of life .
 despite this patient do not always assume preferred role in decision-making .
 not all cancer patient wish to be involve in decision-making despite have much opportunity to do so .
 several study have report that the degree to which patient wish to participate in decision-making vary widely and that a patient 's level of involvement in decision-making be not indicative of desire for information .
 many patient who undertake a passive role in decision-making still want to be well inform .
 increase in knowledge satisfaction treatment compliance and quality of life have be report as positive outcome of adequate information provision .
 not have enough information have be link to dissatisfaction with care and reduce well-being .
 investigator have find that the desire for information be temporal in nature with different kind of information be request at different time throughout the disease trajectory .
 generally the information cancer patient say that they require much be the information about survival and stage of the disease and about treatment option and relate side effect .
 while the literature widely refer to the desire for information exhibit by a patient as information need we acknowledge that the term need inappropriately describe what be occur .
 use the term need imply that there be an objective standard by which the need can be assess .
 what be actually be determine be the patient express desire for information .
 for the sake of simplicity however we will use the term need in order to be in agreement with the exist literature .
 overwhelmingly healthcare practitioner be the much widely use and the much preferred source of information for cancer patient although there be evidence that the use of electronic and medium source for cancer information have increase significantly .
 patient may also use specially design intervention call consumer decision aid cda that provide information relevant to a specific decision regard treatment option .
 cda use prior to or during a physician consultation be one way of engage patient in a meaningful discussion of treatment option .
 in addition to provide relevant information the patient be lead through the decision process .
 risk and benefit of the treatment option be present in a format that be easy to understand along with a value clarification exercise mean to elicit the patient 's personal preference regard different treatment option .
 cda be an increasingly common method of support a treatment choice and be often use to facilitate the decision process .
 however not all patient may have access to or choose to use decision aid prior to make a treatment choice .
 pierce study the unaided decision-making process in woman with a diagnosis of early-stage breast cancer or a diagnosis of cardiovascular disease and find several problematic aspect of decision behaviour .
 decision aid be design in part to counteract faulty decision behavior .
 pierce also assert that the majority of woman in study make satisfactory decision without the benefit of a decision aid .
 this unaided decision must be based on some type of information or evidence .
 as be mention previously healthcare practitioner be the much preferred source of information for patient face a treatment choice however other source such as family friend the medium and the internet be also widely use .
 researchers examine the source use by breast cancer patient have report inconsistent result with some investigator report that people source be favored over documentary source and other report the reverse .
 other factor may come into play when patient make decision about which treatment to choose other than the simple provision of information .
 researchers examine how decision be actually make in the real world descriptive theory rather than how they ought to be make normative theory have discover that people often make decision that do not appear to be rational .
 how a choice be frame which outcome a patient value and whether the patient have the ability or motivation to understand the intricacy of the scientific information may all play a role in how a decision be make .
 decisional heuristic adaptive short-cuts in the decision process be use to make decision in complex situation where information may be incomplete or difficult to understand .
 also the emotional impact of be diagnose with cancer may lead patient to base decision on fear rather than scientific evidence .
 in term of theoretical research two particularly informative model of how oncology patient seek out healthcare information exist in the literature .
 johnson produce the comprehensive model of information seek cmis which focuses on characteristic and utility of information channel source as well as factor antecedent to information seek personal relevance and background factor .
 much recently longo develop a conceptual model which identify several personal and contextual factor think to influence information seek and use factor that be roughly equivalent to johnson 's personal relevance and background factor .
 but instead of focusing on the characteristic of the source the longo model describe the actual process of information seek and information use .
 two kind of information use be identify one result from active information seek and one result from the passive receipt of information .
 in each of this two category several phase of information use be identify accord to the level of the patient 's involvement .
 for example in phase 1 the patient be not aware of or do not receive the available information .
 in phase 2 the patient be aware of the information but do not attempt to access it or passively receive it and so on .
 longo identify satisfaction health outcome activity of daily live adls and empowerment locus of control as relevant patient outcome .
 conceptual model be helpful in identify key variable that be to be study and can help in organize the finding of relate research .
 evidence obtain from empirical research or systematic review of the exist literature either refute or confirm the model propose relationship thus either challenge or strengthen the model .
 the ultimate goal be to produce the much accurate and parsimonious representation of the truth .
 the longo model be useful in that it synthesize and integrate the concept surround information seek and use by cancer patient however the relationship propose need to be test and refined .
 it be intention to determine whether or not the influence factor and relationship present in the longo model be support by the exist literature .
 in order to resolve this we have seek out empirical article that explore the way in which breast cancer patient 's acquire and utilize information for treatment decision-making .
 in this paper the author survey the exist literature relate to the express information need of early-stage breast cancer patient face a treatment choice between mastectomy and lumpectomy the information source use to satisfy this need and the outcome relate to decisional support intervention .
 specifically we summarize research relate to the follow 1 what be the various express information need of early-stage breast cancer patient in term of type range quality and quantity and what source of information be use to fill this various need within the context of a treatment decision between mastectomy or lumpectomy question 2 what effect do woman identify as a result of use research evidence specifically decision aid use to support a treatment decision between mastectomy and lumpectomy method .
 broadly speak the aim of a systematic review be to synthesize the finding of several study that address the same topic or problem use strategy that limit bias and random error .
 study be put through a rigorous critical appraisal process and finding be combine and interpret .
 when finding be too diverse to be compare statistically or when the research method use be dissimilar a much narrative approach must be undertake .
 the research question guide this review cast a broad net into the literature result in the capture of a diverse set of study .
 it be evident early in process that an integrative review be a much appropriate strategy to assimilate the finding .
 integrative review allow for the inclusion of a diversity of literature both empirical and theoretical and can contribute to a comprehensive portrayal of the topic of interest 39 57 .
 procedure .
 a review of the literature publish over the last year be conduct use the follow database cumulative index to nursing and allied health literature cinahl medline psychinfo science citation index expanded social science citation index and the arts and humanities citation index the last three through the web of science .
 the search be limited to article publish in english between january 1 1986 and march 31 .
 in order to adequately cover the topic under review we conduct two search with each relate to one of the guide question .
 the first search use the term information seek information source information seek behaviour information need decision-making information resource oncology cancer and neoplasm and yield 557 hit .
 the search be far refined use the limit term breast conserve therapy bct lumpectomy mastectomy and surgery .
 this result in a substantial narrowing of the focus of the search and consequently the number of hit be reduce to the abstract of this article be review and it be determine that only eight article be relevant to the topic of review .
 in conduct the second search the key search term use be decision-making and treatment choice in combination with oncology cancer or neoplasm and yield a combine total of 1922 hit .
 the search be far refined use the limit term decisional support decision aid cda and consumer decision aid .
 this result in a substantial narrowing of the focus of the search and consequently the number of hit be reduce to the abstract of this article be review and it be determine that only three of the article be relevant to the topic of review .
 acceptance or rejection of an article be based on the inclusion exclusion criterion list in a complete list of exclude article 127 be available from the author .
 full-size image 69k expanded conceptual model of health information seek behavior and the use of information for health care decision from .
 view within article .
 combined the relevant article from the two search number a search of the reference list ancestry search of the retain article yield another 11 article .
 hand search of the follow journal yield the final three article psycho-oncology european journal of cancer care medical decision making oncology nursing forum cancer nursing and patient education and counseling .
 in all 25 article meet the inclusion exclusion criterion .
 we determine that a methodological evaluation be not feasible give the disparate research method use among the include article .
 result .
 the retrieve article be sort into three broad category .
 in all of the article the study participant be early-stage breast cancer patient within the context of have to make a treatment decision between mastectomy or lumpectomy .
 investigator in the first group report on study examine information need the second group on the source of information preferred and or use and the third group on the effectiveness of a specific decisional support intervention .
 the first two group provide a potential answer to question 1 and the third group of article provide a potential answer to question .
 table .
 article examine information need of early-stage breast cancer patient .
 authorsyear publishedcountrysamplemeasurement toolsranked information need in order high first difference between group by topic quality amount or reason bilodeau and degner 1996cann 74 rr not reportedinformation need 9 item list thurstone 's pair comparisondisease stage chance of cure treatment option physical and emotional aspect side effectsself-care much important to old woman and those with high school education or little 1997cann 278 rr need 9 item list thurstone 's pair comparisonchance of cure spread of disease treatment option family risk adverse effectssexual attractiveness much important to young woman self-care much important to old woman family risk much important to woman with a family member with breast cancer chance of a cure much important to those who want an active role in dm chance of a cure much important close to time of diagnosis self-care much important far from diagnosis 1997cann rr toronto informational need questionnaire-breast cancer tinq-bc disease treatment test physical psychologicalthe high the age the low the total score fewer information need .
 there be no difference based on marital status income or education 1997cann rr not reported51-item toronto informational need questionnaire-breast cancer tinq-bc treatment disease test physical psychologicalno difference between treatment subgroup and no difference based on marital status education or income young woman have a great need for information high total score 1994cann 35 rr statement describe information need under each of seven categoriesno overall ranking seven state hypothesis relate to decisional control active passive and information needsactive patient want to receive detail information about illness and treatment some passive patient want minimal information but there be a subgroup of passive patient who want detail information even though they do not wish to take part in dm rr not reportedsemi-structured interview by telephonenot rankedreasons for information seek to gain a sense of control reduce anxiety change behavior to predict the future .
 much woman want as much information as possible 1995ukn rr not reportedinformation need 9 item list thurstone 's pair comparisondisease cure disease stage treatment family risk side effectsfor woman year of age and year information regard sexuality be much important than for woman year of age old woman rate information regard social life as much important than do young woman rr need 9 item list thurstone 's pair comparisondisease cure disease stage treatment risksrankings do not change with decisional control desire or time since diagnosis woman with intermediate level of education rate information about treatment option as second and stage of disease as third priority .
 full-size table .
 a sample size of eleven with diagnosis of breast cancer .
 view within article .
 table .
 article examine the source of information use and or preferred by early-stage breast cancer patient .
 authoryearcountrysamplemeasurement toolsranked list sourcesfactors influence source use bilodeau and degner 1996cann 74 rr not reportedranking source from a provide list of of source use physician friend and family and nurse .
 ranking of preferred source physician nurse friend or relative brochure medical journal or textbookscorrelation level of education and use of medical journal r p .
 overall people source use much than write source 68 rr of five specific item and who supply the informationranking of source use physician be primary provider no give nurse .
 also mention american cancer society library pamphlet of the young woman in 's be satisfy with the information receive from physician but only in 's and 's feel well inform hughes 1993usn 71 rr background inventory include a list of source top three source use prior to consultation lie medium relative and friend educational brochure .
 also mention healthcare professional neighbors textbooksmastectomy group receive information from much source than do bct group p before consultation author presume source be informalfriends family medium lacey 12 rr n alisted not rank by preference or use physician family friendsrelevant theme elicit trusting the opinion and advice of physician about treatment decision and appreciate the importance of family and friend support in decision-making mastaglia and kristjanson 175 rr factor list include influential source percentage source use surgeon general practitioner family friend cancer foundation mastectomy group name family as a much frequent source than the bct group bct group name gp as a much frequent source than do the mastectomy group 1997usn 179 rr factor list include influential source listed not rank by preference or use physician initial consult or second third opinion family and friendsseeking a second opinion decline with age old age be associate with want someone else to make the treatment decision for them young woman want as much information as possible old woman least likely to have discuss treatment decision with a layperson rees and bath 156 rr of source use obtain from focus group interviewslisted not rank by preference or use healthcare professional family and friend charitable organization support groupsreasons to seek out information to facilitate cope to regain a sense of control to increase confidence to help in dm .
 reason to avoid information to prevent worry to avoid fear to minimize feeling of negativity and depression 1998usn 388 rr scale to rate a list of source in list not report percentage very or somewhat helpful breast cancer physician write material from physician other write friend and family primary care physician oldest woman 75 year of age little likely to receive write information from source other than physician or from family friend .
 younger woman be much likely to find write information from physician or family friend very or somewhat helpful smitt and heltzel 1997usn 115 rr scale to rate a list of 19 sourcesmean score source use surgeon primary care physician spouse radiation oncologist medical oncologist impersonal source little influential .
 spouse child friend and parent much influential for the mastectomy group .
 radiation oncologist much influential for the bct group talosig-garcia and davis 287 rr of respondent receive information from specific source at the time of and after diagnosispercentage accessed first health professional book brochure or pamphlet internet hospital or clinic cancer organization .
 percentage source very helpful book brochure pamphlet health professional spouse partner newspaper magazine internet internet be not extensively use by minority breast cancer patient .
 of woman find the information they receive at time of diagnosis to be adequate 1989usn 22 rr choose top three source from a list of eight sourcespercentage source use physician family friend clinic handout tie at nurse medium clinic videotape tie at people source significantly much important t p .
 nurse be second much frequently use source for bct group after physician family and friend be second much frequently use source after physician for the mastectomy group .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 table .
 clinical trial of consumer decision aid cda for surgical treatment of early-stage breast cancer .
 article year and country description of aidstudy designsample detailscontroloutcome measuresfindings audiotape and workbook with value clarification review after consultation with surgeon re-diagnosissequential pilot 2 pilot 1 n 18 pilot 2 n consecutive patient from two surgeonsn alevel of anxiety knowledge of treatment option decisional conflict decisional regretanxiety be unaffected by the cda knowledge level improve some decisional conflict subscale of the dcs remain after use the cda audiotape and workbook with value clarification review after consultation with surgeon re-diagnosiscluster randomization clinical trial datum collect at t1 baseline t2 prior to surgery and t3 follow-up n 136 response rate of of surgeon contact of patient enrolledtri-fold pamphlet with same information as cda but no graphics number photo or value clarificationlevel of anxiety knowledge of treatment option decisional conflict decisional regretno overall effect of cda but a trend towards overall decisional conflict reduction in woman lean towards mas or those who be unsure at enrollment many positive comment form participant qualitative net interactive breast cancer cdromquazi-experimental pre-test post-test longitudinal with three datum collection point t1 t2 t3 and three sitesn 167 response rate consecutive datum collection pre-operative and at 3 and 9 month post-surgerybrochures oral information from surgeon each site serve as control at least oncedecisional style treatment preference decisional conflict quality of life breast cancer specific functioning and symptom satisfaction with information general and treatment specific dm process decision and carepositive effect of cdrom on satisfaction with information and treatment decision at t2 and positive effect of cdrom on satisfaction with information dm process and communication with physician at t3 cdrom group report well general health at t2 and t3 and well physical functioning at t3 physician administer decision board 25 in .
 slide door reveal information in a sequential fashion two information card read before and after presentationpilot studyn 175 response rate consecutive patient from 7 surgeonsn asatisfaction with dm process information provide decision make decision board .
 comprehension of information present time require to complete physician satisfaction with dm processthe decision board be easy to understand help with decision and help patient think of question to ask .
 patient who use the decision board recommend it be use with other patient be satisfy with the information they receive and report satisfaction with the dm process .
 physician find the intervention helpful for much consultation physician administer decision board 25 in .
 slide door reveal information in a sequential fashion two information card read before and after presentationpaired cluster randomized clinical trial surgeon randomized surgeon be pair-matched based on age and gendern surgeon with patient 94 intervention usual practice usual practice surgeon discuss treatment in the usual fashion without the decision boardpatient knowledge decisional conflict satisfaction with dm and the treatment choice anxiety and depressioncda group control group follow consultation high knowledge score p low decisional conflict p high satisfaction with dm p at time of consultationno difference at 6 and 12 month .
 no difference in anxiety or depression score between intervention and control group at any time us consultation recording five step intervention contracting agenda set mapping commitment and debrief administer during consultation by a researchersequential control trial measurement at three point pre-intervention post-consultation planning and post-intervention n 12 control arm n 12 intervention arm 2 physician with approximately equal number in both armsresearcher present during consultation but do not take part physician conduct surgical consultation as per usual practice decision quality scale patient and physician version 7 item ucsf satisfaction with consultation scale patient and physician version higher decision quality with intervention control on patient decision scale p amount of agreement between patient and physician be fair for control group kappa moderate for the intervention group kappa and significant p time to administer the intervention be not significantly much than control .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 information need study .
 there be eight article in which author discuss the express informational need of early-stage breast cancer patient within the context of choose between mastectomy and lumpectomy .
 despite the variety of method use by this group of investigator finding be consistent .
 all of the article report that overall desire for information be high .
 the majority of patient want as much information as possible .
 the much request information be about chance of a cure follow in order by stage of the disease treatment option family risk and side effect .
 stage of disease be relate to chance for a cure in that the stage of the cancer be an indication of the severity of the illness and consequently how curable it be .
 the next great desire be for treatment information .
 while have information available to help in decision-making be important it be not the only reason for satisfying an information need as be report in the article by .
 there be a number of factor find to be associate with the type and degree of information need and this be summarize in table .
 table .
 summary of information need and information source finding .
 variableinfluence of article with significant finding information need age older agepreference for information about self-care 2 social life 1 fewer information need 1 younger agegreater need for information 1 preference for information about physical attractiveness 1 sexuality 2 education lower educationpreference for information about self-care 1 preferred degree of decisional controlpreference for information about chance for a cure 1 family history of breast cancerpreference for information about family risk 1 time since diagnosis further from diagnosispreference for information about self-care 1 closer to diagnosispreference for information about chance for a cure 1 actual role in decision-making active patientspreference for detail information 1 passive patientspreference for minimal information but a subgroup want detail information 1 source of information age younger ageseeking a second opinion 1 wanting as much information as possible 1 satisfaction with information receive from physician 1 written information from physician or family and friend very or somewhat helpful 1 older agewanting someone else to make the decision 1 less likely to have discuss treatment decision with a layperson 1 less likely to receive write information from source other than physician or family and friend 1 less likely to want much information about therapy choice 1 less likely to have consult three or much physician about treatment 1 education higher educationuse of medical journal 1 involvement in dm higher involvementuse of gp as an information source 1 type of surgery mastectomymore source use prior to consultation 1 family much frequent source 1 spouse child friend much influential 1 family and friend second much frequent source after physician 1 lumpectomygp much frequent source 1 nurse second much frequent source after physician 1 radiation oncologist much influential 1 full-size table .
 view within article .
 information source study .
 investigator in 11 study explore the source of information that breast cancer patient 's access in order to support a choice between two form of surgical treatment .
 preferred source be rank either by the participant directly or the ranking be determine based on mean score from likert-like evaluative scale .
 overall in all but one study physician be the much preferred source follow closely by other healthcare provider .
 in the single study that mention the internet the world wide web be rank fifth behind newspaper and magazine .
 of the study that rank the actual source use participant be ask either to pick from a list which source they use to rate the degree of influence likert-like scale the choice have on treatment decision or to simply list the source they use .
 again healthcare professional be the much frequently identify source or have the great influence on decision-making .
 family and friend be also highly rank .
 in one study participant be ask to list which source they accessed first after receive diagnosis and in this case the top three source in order be physician book brochure and pamphlet and the internet .
 age and the type of surgery choose be find to influence source choice .
 finding from one of the study that use qualitative method include two theme that be consistent with what the quantitative study find trusting in the advice and opinion of physician about treatment decision and appreciate the importance of support from family and friend in decision-making .
 both theme support the notion that interactive human source of information be preferred over static paper-based or electronic source .
 decision aid study .
 while there be several well-known evaluative study of decisional support intervention that include a mixture of decision aid in term of purpose patient population or diagnosis there be only six study that focused on woman make the treatment choice between lumpectomy or mastectomy .
 quantitative finding be equivocal .
 statistically significant difference be find between intervention and control group in some study while other study find no difference .
 qualitative finding be much definitive .
 patient appreciate the clarity of information the use of diagram and picture and the fact that information that the physician provide be reinforce .
 overall both patient and physician reaction to the intervention be positive .
 table .
 cda outcome .
 full-size table .
 .
 full-size table 2k intervention group compare to a control group significant at p increase decrease nr no relationship not measure or not report .
 view within article .
 methodological rigor .
 the disparate nature of the research method use among the include article preclude any systematic quality assessment from be perform .
 article use similar method be group together for a narrative assessment of research rigor .
 the much common research design use to investigate information need and source be a descriptive cross-sectional design .
 method of datum collection include self-report questionnaire card-sort and interview both individual and focus group .
 questionnaire about source use preference and information need be able to elicit the degree of use or preference by use a likert-like scale .
 however a ceiling effect be note especially in the information need study with patient designate every kind of information as be important .
 the card-sort technique use in four of the study eliminate this problem and allow information need to be measure relative to each other .
 the use of consecutive and convenience sampling in the quantitative study while understandable give the difficulty in randomizing patient and the vulnerability of the population under study do introduce potential sampling bias .
 sample use in the majority of study be predominantly white well-educated middleclass woman .
 attempts to attain a much balanced sample by use quota sampling for example may have lead to a much representative sample and therefore to a great ability to generalize to the population at large .
 the one study that focused on ethnicity do find some subtle difference in source use high of write material suggest that much heterogeneous sampling may produce slightly different result .
 purposive sampling be use for the qualitative study which be entirely appropriate give that the goal of this kind of sampling be to ensure that those informant with a special knowledge of a phenomenon be choose .
 another factor the time between diagnosis and datum collection vary substantially among the study .
 anywhere from at the time of diagnosis to 119 month pass between the diagnostic consultation and datum collection make recall bias a considerable threat .
 give that information need be find to change over time in one study it be quite likely that information need at 18 month post-diagnosis will not be comparable to information need at time of diagnosis .
 none of the study examine source use over time .
 data analysis consist of either simple reporting of frequency ranking or the use of various statistical method to determine if difference in ranking accord to a specific variable age education choice of surgery degree of decisional control be statistically significant .
 all the analysis be do at the individual level .
 article report the result of decisional support intervention use various experimental and quasi-experimental design to determine the effectiveness of different decision aid .
 three of the article report on the development and pilot testing of decisional support tool .
 two of the study use a randomized control trial design cluster randomization with physician randomized and one study use a pre-test post-test longitudinal design with datum collection occur at three point .
 control group receive either the usual practice or a significantly scale down version of the decisional support intervention .
 statistical test use to determine if difference between group be statistically significant be the t-test chi-square test and manova .
 power calculation be report for all three of the study that be not pilot .
 one of the three non-pilot study be underpowered .
 in summary the information need and the source accessed to satisfy this need have be explore in several study but mainly on a descriptive level .
 additionally the sampling method use in this study may limit the generalizability of the result .
 the study that examine decision aid outcome while methodologically much rigorous find only very modest difference between the intervention group and the usual practice .
 discussion and .
 discussion .
 this review focused on the information need identify by early-stage breast cancer patient in the context of make a treatment choice and the source of information they access to satisfy those need .
 investigator have conduct systematic review of the literature examine the information and support need of breast cancer patient and cancer patient in general but none have focused specifically on information need in the context of make a treatment choice .
 only one systematic review of the source of information use by cancer patient be locate .
 one review examine information need and source use in tandem .
 systematic review of decisional support intervention for cancer treatment decision-making exist however none be restrict to examine the use of consumer decision aid cda with breast cancer patient specifically .
 this review then be unique in that it link together this three different but relate aspect of information seek behavior and examine them within the context of a specific patient population at a particular juncture of disease trajectory .
 based on this review the relationship between information need information source and decisional support can be describe in the follow way .
 much but not all patient wish to be involve in treatment decision-making .
 those who take part in plan treatment need to base decision on some sort of information .
 this requirement for information be express as an information need .
 how this need be satisfy determine the source accessed .
 cda be intervention design by healthcare professional to help patient and physician choose among two or much sound clinical option .
 however patient may not be aware of have access to or have the desire or need to use a cda .
 a decisional support intervention be only one of any number of information source on which a patient may base treatment decision .
 as well several factor such as age education and health status may influence which information need have priority and which information source be accessed .
 information need .
 the overall ranking of information need be fairly consistent with chance for a cure and stage of disease take precedence over treatment information .
 this be not surprising since the question in much case be ask relatively close to the time of diagnosis .
 cancer be see as a threat to life and be able determine the extent of that threat would likely be a priority .
 information need be find to be influence by several factor albeit not consistently over the eight article review .
 age education time since diagnosis and degree of participation in decision-making be all find to influence information need priority ranking .
 for example old woman rank information about sexuality low and information about self-care high than young woman .
 this be explain in a number of way .
 older woman be much likely to be single and therefore may lack a sexual partner or they may have increase sexual dysfunction due to post-menopausal hormonal change .
 women already cope with age-related functional change may be concern that disease-related change may threaten ability to maintain independence .
 as a result information need regard self-care take precedence over sexuality .
 an alternate explanation may be that old woman have much sexual experience to draw from than do young woman and therefore have fewer information need .
 another factor find to influence information need be time since diagnosis .
 information concern chance of a cure and stage of disease be the much important need for all breast cancer patient but they take on a high priority close to the time of diagnosis .
 this be not surprising since the degree of threat and feeling of vulnerability would be heighten at the time of diagnosis and would dissipate somewhat over time .
 information source .
 the choice of source of information use by early-stage breast cancer patient to inform treatment choice be consistent in that people source be rank high than medium or documentary source in almost all of the study with physician be the much preferred use source overall .
 the use of family and friend as an information resource be also a prevalent finding .
 patient appreciate human source of information for interactive natureinformation be tailor to specific situation misunderstanding be rectify question answer and information gap fill .
 human source however differ in term of knowledge domain .
 a physician a nurse and a family member would each have a different kind of expertise but in the study examine here they be not differentiate .
 it would be helpful to know what kind of information be be seek from family and friend and what kind be be seek from health professional and what the relative importance in the decision-making process each have .
 factor find to be associate with the kind of source use be chiefly age education degree of involvement in decision-making income and eventual surgical choice .
 for example old woman be find to be much satisfy with the information they receive from physician while young woman want much information and seek it out from a great variety of source .
 there be speculation that this be due to a change in attitude towards the medical profession and that old patient would be much familiar or comfortable with a physician patient relationship where the physician have a large decision-making role and therefore would trust that what information the doctor give them be good enough .
 income and education impact source use in predictable way .
 in the two minority group study high income be associate with computer ownership and consequently with the high ranking of web-based source .
 higher education be associate with the use of medical journal in one study .
 as would be expect the overall use of traditional research dissemination vehicle peer-reviewed healthcare journal by patient be very low .
 for those patient with considerable education however it be a source that be accessed .
 much highly educate subject may have much positive attitude towards research and may be well able to understand and assess research finding .
 decision aid .
 the cda study examine in this review show mix finding .
 some decrease decisional conflict and increase satisfaction with the decision and increase knowledge score .
 while qualitatively the comment regard the decision aid be very positive quantitatively difference between the usual practice and the use of the cda be modest at good .
 this may suggest that woman be get the information they need from other source or be get the information they need from physician without have to use a cda .
 this be congruent with a finding from peirce 's study that much woman be able to make a satisfactory decision regard breast cancer treatment without the use of a decision aid .
 longo model .
 the author find that certain aspect of longo 's model be support by the finding of this integrative review .
 in the information need literature the variable age and education demographic factor in the longo model time since diagnosis delivery of care and degree of participation in decision-making attitude intention behavior be find to influence the kind of information breast cancer patient desire .
 in the longo model this variable and other be posit to influence information seek and use .
 the influence of factor in the longo model such as culture language healthcare structure on information seek and use be not support in the literature .
 either no significant statistical relationship have be find or the influence of this factor on information seek and use be too difficult or expensive to measure .
 for example the influence of healthcare structure on information seek would require a multi-national study involve countless participant and would likely be cost-prohibitive .
 although information need be not the same as information seek and use it be argue that information need be a prerequisite for information seek .
 in order for active information seek to occur a need must be perceive .
 it may be that the factor that influence the type quality and or quantity of information a patient require also influence how actively or passively a patient act to satisfy an information need .
 for example a woman 's high priority information need would be actively seek out while a low priority need may be passively receive .
 longo mention health outcome empowerment locus of control satisfaction and adls as patient outcome that be affect by information seek behavior and information use .
 this variable be similar to the outcome that be measure in the cda study .
 while a cda be only one of many different source of information that be use the fact that they be find to significantly increase satisfaction with the information the decision and the decision process and improve health outcome support the relationship between information seek and use and patient consumer outcome represent in the model .
 connections between information seek use and locus of control empowerment and activity of daily live be not support by the review literature .
 one weakness of the longo model be that it do not address difference in choice of information source as it vary by personal age or contextual geographic proximity factor .
 the assumption be that one of the three type of source or channel use interchangeably here will be use but there be no indication in the model that this channel may be influence by personal or contextual factor .
 in johnson 's comprehensive model of information seek source characteristic and perceive source utility be see to influence source choice .
 in this review age education degree of involvement in decision-making and income be all find to be associate with source choice .
 incorporating the characteristic of the individual the context and the source include utility into the model would strengthen it and would help to explain the role that source choice have in affect outcome such as satisfaction with the decision make .
 we suggest that a much refined version of the model would provide great insight and understanding into the way in which consumer of health information determine what information be important how that information be accessed and how be the recipient of health information impact outcome such as satisfaction and well-being .
 the suggest relationship within the model that be not support in the literature need to test and develop .
 we suggest that far research be need to explore this interaction .
 implication for future research .
 while we be begin to understand what information be important to breast cancer patient what source they use and the role of cda in provide information many question regard information seek and information use be leave unanswered .
 for example why be some source preferred over other what be the quality of this information source that make them attractive to patient and be cda the good way of provide the information patient need to make an inform healthcare decision additional research design to answer this and subsequent question will provide the insight require to refine a model of health information use by patient .
 conclusion .
 women with early-stage breast cancer who be face surgical treatment for disease express a desire for information about chance for a cure the staging of disease and the available treatment .
 several factor influence this express desire include age stage of disease and whether they be active or passive participant in decision-making .
 the source preferred and accessed by this woman to satisfy this information need be overwhelmingly interactive human source primarily in the study we have review physician .
 age education and type of treatment choose influence the choice of information source .
 while qualitative finding support the use of cda the qualitative finding be much ambiguous .
 patient use decisional support intervention be find to have little decisional conflict high satisfaction with the decision make and the decision process and high knowledge level in some but not all study .
 in relation to the considerable cost of produce decision aid the benefit of use them be fairly meager .
 practice implication .
 for those make breast cancer treatment decision we know that interactive human source of evidence be preferred and use far much than any other source that treatment information i of high priority and that many but not all patient want as much high quality information as possible .
 increasing participation in healthcare decision-making by patient have necessitate the development of intervention that provide current systematically derived research thus ensure that healthcare decision can be make based on the good evidence .
 decision aid be not universally available and when they be use either by the patient themselves or in conjunction with a healthcare professional they produce limited benefit .
 of course trend in information need and source choice based on demographic characteristic do not imply that all member of a specific population hold similar preference .
 many author stress the need to assess information need on an individual basis .
 as well assumption about source use should not be make .
 not all young patient be internet savvy and not all old patient think that physician 's opinion regard treatment be good enough .
 practitioner need to be aware of the trend but not be limited by them .
 further research in this area should focus on determine the reason certain source be use and in what context .
 if interactive human source be preferred by patient then by what mechanism s be they evaluate in addition what role do traditional research play in patient decision-making a well understanding of the concept surround source use a conceptual model would provide a solid foundation from which to create much effective way of disseminate information to patient that be essential for optimal decision-making .
 acknowledgement .
 m .
 o'leary be support by an alberta heritage foundation for medical research ahfmr studentship and a canadian institute for health research cihr graduate scholarship .
 randomised trial 2 and 45 have recently confirm old datum in that there be indeed a dose response relationship for local control 5 39 and 48 .
 a dose increase of 15 gy reduce the local recurrence rate with rr as well as after breast conserve surgery or after breast conserve treatment with rt alone 1 and 51 .
 on the other hand cosmetic outcome be inversely relate to radiation dose 49 and 55 and boost volume 3 31 and 32 .
 also the appearance of skin teleangiectases be clearly dose relate .
 brachytherapy be able to deliver high dose to small volume confine to the tumour bed while surround tissue include the overlying skin can maximally be spare .
 however the technical performance of brachytherapy be critical .
 poor quality brachytherapy will lead to unacceptable outcome for local control and cosmesis as well .
 this paper provide an overview of the indication for brachytherapy in breast cancer .
 we will critically evaluate the localisation procedure and technical detail that have to be follow to obtain the desire result .
 indication for brachytherapy in breast .
 boost irradiation of the primary tumour site the main indication for brachytherapy in breast cancer be for boost irradiation of the primary tumour site after breast conserve surgery and external beam irradiation of the entire breast .
 this breast conserve surgery be nowadays offer as a standard treatment in t1 t2 cancer when breast volume and tumour site allow adequate surgical removal of the tumour without cause unacceptable mutilation .
 in practice this approach be feasible in much tumour that be little than mm in diameter and up to tumour in the upper outer quadrant of a large breast .
 boosting the tumour bed after complete or incomplete resection and gy whole breast irradiation have be demonstrate to significantly decrease the local failure rate .
 retrospective study 5 39 and 48 as well as prospective randomised trial 2 39 and 45 have show a reduction in local recurrence by a factor 2 when a boost dose of 15 gy be deliver .
 however increase boost dose decrease the final cosmetic outcome 49 and 55 .
 fibrosis and result cosmetic damage be also boost volume dependent 3 31 and 32 .
 borger et calculate that a doubling of the boost volume lead to a decrease of in tolerance dose for severe fibrosis .
 skin teleangiectasia be another problem that may spoil the cosmetic outcome .
 the tolerance of skin vessel to develop late teleangiectasia be rather low since gy deliver to those vessel cause visible teleangiectasia in up to of patient .
 therefore it seem important to reduce the irradiate volume by adapt it closely to the clinical boost target volume and to spare the breast skin as much as possible .
 to reach this goal interstitial boost can be preferred to external beam boost with electron or photon in the case of deeply seat tumour site .
 theoretical calculation compare skin dose of different geometrically configured implant with 15 mev electron beam be carry out by group and confirm in a retrospective clinical analysis .
 we conclude that when the ctv extend deep than 28 mm under the epidermal surface implant have a high ballistic selectivity in term of the volume of the irradiate breast tissue and dose to the skin blood vessel than electron beam boost .
 full-size image 4k different boost modality in breast conserve treatment .
 for deeply locate tumour brachytherapy offer the possibility to treat little non-target breast tissue and to spare the skin .
 view within article in case of a high risk of local recurrence in case of positive section margin and if a high boost dose be plan the ballistic advantage of an interstitial implant over electron beam be even much important .
 boost irradiation of the primary tumour site after neo adjuvant systemic chemotherapy and or external radiotherapy another indication for interstitial brachytherapy be as a boost irradiation of the primary tumour site after neo adjuvant systemic chemotherapy and or external rt in tumour non-amenable to primary conservative surgery .
 this approach be feasible in case of a clinical complete or partial remission of a tumour mm in diameter non-metastatic or with limited nodal extension which be usually treat by mastectomy .
 interstitial brachytherapy boost after whole breast irradiation have be show to provide significantly high local control rate than electron or cobalt beam boost in retrospective and randomised study .
 in case of partial remission conservative resection of residual tumour can be carry out before implantation .
 it have also be recommend as a boost method in the treatment of locally advance breast cancer after primary chemo- or hormonotherapy and external beam irradiation .
 postoperative interstitial irradiation alone a recently advocate procedure be postoperative interstitial irradiation alone of the primary tumour site after breast conserve surgery in select low risk t1 and small breast cancer 26 36 and 54 .
 since the follow-up of this new approach be rather short this treatment should still be reserve for randomised trial only .
 thoracic wall irradiation thoracic wall irradiation with a mould cast be use to heat breast cancer recurrence after mastectomy and previous irradiation to the thoracic wall .
 limited recurrence can also be treat by interstitial implantation definitively or after surgical resection .
 contraindications for brachytherapy in breast cancer the follow clinical situation be contraindication for interstitial breast implant multicentric breast cancer paget' s disease alone or in association with a breast lump poor cosmetic outcome after the previous breast conserve surgery since there be no rationale to use complex technique to obtain optimal cosmetic outcome locally advance breast cancer with extensive skin involvement invasion of the thoracic wall or mastitis carcinomatosa metastatic disease make long-term local control not an obligate goal for thoracic wall recurrence target area large than cm2 or lesion thick than 5 mm for the thoracic wall mould technique .
 technical aspect of brachytherapy for breast .
 clinical work up clinical examination with measurement and documentation of the localisation of the tumour mass with picture in supine position mammography ultrasonography and if indicate mri be mandatory to document local tumour extension .
 diagnosis of malignancy should be document by fine needle aspiration cytology core biopsy or microscopic examination of the resection specimen .
 nodal and distant spread have to be investigate and the tumour stage assess accord to the uicc tnm classification .
 the breast surgeon radiation oncologist and if indicate a medical oncologist jointly make the decision for the modality of breast cancer treatment .
 in case of breast conserve surgery it be advocate to ask the surgeon to mark the tumour bed with four to six clip indicate the craniocaudal mediolateral and anteroposterior limit of the resected in case of doubt of residual microcalcifications a postoperative mammography have to be carry out .
 in case of initial treatment with systemic neo adjuvant hormono- or chemotherapy and or external beam rt regression and localisation of possible residual disease also have to be document by mammography ultrasonography or mri .
 definition of the clinical target volume the ptv for the primary site boost irradiation in breast conserve treatment be define by a rim of mm breast tissue surround the primary tumour since this area contain of the microscopic tumour extension around the primary tumour .
 this mean that a safety margin of breast tissue of 15 mm may be adequate after complete tumour excision .
 in case of incomplete resection a safety margin up to mm may be much appropriate .
 in much case this margin include a large amount of duct in the clinical boost target volume in the direction of the nipple .
 breast skin or tissue beyond the fascia such as thoracic wall muscle or rib be never ctv for boost irradiation in t1 or t2 breast cancer since there be no significant amount of tumour cell suppose to be leave there in deeply seat tumour .
 in superficially locate tumour the overlying skin be usually surgically remove with the tumour and the residual skin do not have to be boost .
 on the contrary irradiation of the skin should be carefully avoid to prevent the occurrence of late skin teleangiectases .
 when a dose of gy be deliver to the skin vessel late teleangiectases may occur in of case .
 vessels may have already receive gy from the breast irradiation depending on the photon energy and the beam angle .
 therefore there be usually only a small dose amount leave in skin vessel tolerance for teleangiectases .
 localisation of the ptv although some experience brachytherapists based on clinical experience and stereotactic intuition might be able to do freehand implantation it be advise to use one of the follow technique to precisely localise the ptv and the breast skin the latter be a critical organ for cosmesis implant can be carry out during surgery .
 this allow direct sight to the ctv and appropriate covering of it by the implant .
 on the other hand the positioning of the source in relation to the overlying skin may be little precise since the skin be close over the implant when the source carrier be already fix in the breast tissue when implant be carry out postoperatively haemoclips can help the radiation oncologist to localise the target area and estimate the depth of the ptv under the overlying skin 21 33 42 and 43 .
 this help to define the dimension of the boost volume as well as the choice between electron beam boost and interstitial implant .
 usually five clip be place cranial caudal leave and right to the excision cavity as well as at the deep point of the posterior resection margin .
 with the help of this clip the target centre as well as the inclination of the needle can be define with a conventional or with a ct-simulator and entrance and exit point can be mark on the skin when clip be lack it be still possible to localise the target volume isocentre with a clinical 3d reconstruction start from the frontal and lateral view of the mammogram and the preoperative picture take in supine position .
 although the surgical intervention may displace the target area accord to the preoperative situation especially when large resection or remodel have be perform clinical experience and control see point 2 have prove that this method be quite reliable in localising the ptv in the breast .
 first the position of the tumour centre tc relative to the nipple be measure on the frontal and lateral view of the affect breast .
 on the frontal the depth from the tumour centre to the nipple df and the distance from the breast midline in medial or lateral sense ml have to be measure .
 on the lateral view the depth dp and the cranial caudal distance from the nipple position cc have to be measure .
 this distance be then transfer to the patient while the breast be compress in the same way as for mammography no correction for magnification need .
 with frontal compression the distance ml be mark medially or laterally from the nipple and the depth df both at the upper and underside of the breast .
 then with lateral compression the craniocaudal distance from the nipple cc be mark and the depth dp at both side of the breast be mark .
 the position of the tc be reconstructed by draw the equator plane through the four depth point two df and two dp and orthogonal line through ml and cc .
 ultrasonography ct and mri may also be use for locate the tumour area much precisely and possibly reduce side effect and breast recurrence by eliminate geographic miss 33 42 and 43 .
 by mean of ct and marker clip it have be possible to further reduce the volume of the boost and far improve local control rate .
 full-size image 13k full-size image 8k use of marker clip to localise the boost target volume and simulate entrance point of guide needle at the skin of the breast with the courtesy of jacobs .
 view within article full-size image 11k full-size image 13k use of mammography in define the boost target localisation in breast conserve treatment .
 view within article full-size image 15k full-size image 16k full-size image 14k full-size image 14k defining the implantation isocentre and definitive needle entrance and exit point at the skin for a breast implant .
 reconstruction boost target isocentre from mammography by simulator or ct .
 the indicate entrance point be too close to the target volume a .
 inclination of the implantation equator plane away from the target to avoid an overlap of the boost ptv and needle exit point at the skin b .
 indication of new entrance and exit point far away from the boost ctv to avoid skin teleangiectases c .
 occurrence of severe teleangiectasic stars' at skin entrance or exit point if rule for implementation be not follow see text d .
 view within article full-size image 16k use of ct and clip localisation for localising the boost ptv with the courtesy of hammer .
 view within article in some case after localisation of the ptv and planning of the needle position the presume entrance or exit point may be too close to the target area .
 then it may be advise to change the inclination of the equator so that the target area and the skin point get sufficiently separate and the occurrence of star-like radiation teleangiectasia at exit and entrance point 4d be avoid .
 for the same reason the direction of the needle can be turn in a frontal plane for example in axillary tail lesion to get much separation between the ptv and exit point of the needle .
 anaesthesia breast implant can easily be carry out under local anaesthesia and premedication with 5 mg midazolam dormicum give 15 min before the implantation .
 general anaesthesia be in experience seldom require of patient but can be preferred in patient with bilateral breast cancer or in very anxious patient .
 the patient be place in supine position with the homolateral arm in abduction .
 after the design of implant geometry and localisation of entrance and exit point of the needle the skin be infiltrate at each point with 1 ml lidocaine .
 the breast tissue itself need no anaesthesia except when a needle be pass through the retroareolar region .
 in such case an extra 1 5 ml can in case of pain be infiltrate in that area of breast tissue .
 design of the implant geometry once the tumour centre be localised and the three dimension of the clinical target volume and the ptv length width and thickness be define and delineate on the patient' s skin the implant geometry be design accord to the rule of the paris system .
 needle be implant parallel and equally distant from each other .
 in much case they be insert in a mediolateral direction .
 however in very medially or laterally locate tumour site it might be advisable to implant in a craniocaudal direction to enable adequate ptv cover without have source position in the breast skin .
 in some rare case the upper outer quadrant have to be implant with needle orientate in a 45 angle to avoid overlap of source position and skin see above .
 two plane of needle be usually need to cover the ptv .
 a single plane may be sufficient in case of a flat breast target thickness of little than 12 mm .
 three plane be rarely require except in a large breast target thickness of much than mm when the targeted breast tissue between pectoral fascia and skin be thick than mm .
 if two or much plane have to be implant needle be dispose either in a triangle or a square pattern .
 when the ptv extend close to the skin a triangular configuration be well than a square configuration adapt to follow the breast skin contour .
 this be the case in very cranial or caudal locate ptv in regular implant or in very medially or laterally locate ptv when craniocaudal orientate implant be carry out .
 number and spacing between needle be choose to adequately cover the width and the thickness of the ptv .
 five to nine needle space 15 mm be usually require .
 implantation .
 guide needle technique after decontamination of the skin and local anaesthesia a reference needle be first implant at the posterior deep side into the centre of the ptv .
 by perform implant either by freehand or help by the method describe in section it be always possible to control the position of the first implant needle relative to the inner scar .
 this be possible by move the tip of the needle up and down in the scar .
 this cause a visible retraction of the scar at the skin while move with the needle .
 for definitive positioning the needle should pass about 5 mm behind the internal scar .
 the other needle of the posterior plane be then implant parallel to the first one .
 spacing template be dispose around the posterior plane of needle .
 then the superficial plane of the needle be implant through the corresponding hole in the template .
 it be important to maintain a sufficient distance between the superficial needle and the overlying skin .
 to avoid overlap of the high dose region around the needle msm maximal security margin and the skin vessel locate in the first 5-mm under the skin surface a minimum skin-source distance have to be respect .
 this distance depend on source configuration and spacing between needle and correspond to spacing 1 mm for single plane implant spacing for square and spacing 1 mm for triangle 7 .
 to verify this distance the use of a skin-source measuring bridge be recommend and 53 .
 full-size image 5k positioning of the msm around an interstitial implant at 5 mm under the epidermis from van limbergen et .
 view within article full-size image 8k linear relation of the msm to source spacing distance s for single plane and double plane in square or triangular geometry .
 msm s 1 for single plane s for double plane square and s 1 for triangle from van limbergen et .
 view within article full-size image 9k the source skin measure bridge van limbergen et .
 view within article if the superficial needle be too close to the skin the template be move towards each other so that the overlying skin move up and away from the needle .
 if this be not sufficient template with a small spacing between the needle be use result in compression of the breast tissue and upward movement of the skin .
 if this be still not sufficient needle have to be replace or irradiation of the overlying skin have to be accept depending on the clinical situation .
 once the implant be approve and the needle immobilised to the template by fixation button the position of the target centre tc relate to the implant distance to the needlepoint or entrance have to be measure and record .
 the minimum distance from the skin above the implant be record as well and the critical position of the skin at the exit and entrance point of the needle the medial and lateral epidermal point be also measure relative to the needle end .
 in case of open tip needle that will be manually after load by iridium wire it be advise to crush the needle at the tip to occlude the lumen for facilitate and secure the loading by prevent dummy wire and active source to sort .
 finally some gauze be dispose between the template and the skin of the thoracic wall at both side of the implant to avoid skin necrosis secondary to continuous pressure of this template .
 plastic tube technique guide needle may be replace by plastic tube immobilised by button at both side of the breast .
 the main advantage be that it be probably well tolerate by the patient but it be much difficult to contain the optimal geometry with parallelism constant inter needle spacing and verifiable distance to the overlying skin .
 dosimetry and optimisation of dose distribution source length and spacing have to be adequate to cover the ptv .
 spacing and number of needle be calculate prior to the implantation accord to the paris system rule .
 the length of the source have to be adapt to the length of the ptv which have to take the position of the skin vessel also into account .
 this vessel be as mention above no target volume at all for boost irradiation .
 for source with equal linear activity source should be time long than the ptv .
 with step source pdr or hdr afterloader and use geometrical optimisation this source target length ratio can be reduce to which reduce the active source length of which be require .
 this allow adequate covering of the target without loading source position that be very close or even inside the skin .
 for this the follow datum have to be enter into the planning system use projection image radiograph or sectional image ct image and dummy source the central dose point in the implant at the level of the target centre tc measure from the hollow or point end of the implantation needle the medial and lateral edge of the ptv for example if we want to treat 15 mm from a primary tumour of mm the edge of the ptv will be 25 mm at both side of the central dose point .
 this lateral and medial target limit can either be draw on the simulator film or define mathematically in the planning system by shift the coordinate of the central dose point medially and laterally along the needle direction the critical dermal dose point this point be situate 5 mm deep than the epidermal entrance and exit point measure at the time of implantation .
 also this point can be enter by digitising simulator film or directly into the planning system overlying skin point use either a metal wire fix to the skin in the central plane or a metal marker at those point where the skin surface seem to be close to the active source .
 again reference dermal point be situate 5 mm deep .
 full-size image 15k x-ray film of a interstitial breast implant .
 the boost target centre tc lateral ldp and medial mdp dermal point be indicate for dose planning .
 view within article the dose be prescribe at an isodose usually represent of the mean central dose .
 the dose to the dermal point should not exceed the prescribe dose to the ptv .
 if so it be a clinical decision either to accept the source position and have a high risk of create late teleangiectasic star at the entrance or exit point of the needle or at the overlying skin or to spare the skin while accept a small safety margin .
 this can be achieve as follow with classical low dose rate by reduce source length to decrease the dose at entry point or with a partial withdrawal of the source to reduce the dose to the overlying skin with step source afterloader implant use the geometrical optimisation facility with geometrical optimisation skin dose be lower at the needle exit point while the target length be retain unchanged in much case another solution be not to load source position into the skin but two to three position outside the skin still allow a well coverage of the lateral limit of the target while avoid hot spot in the skin itself .
 prescription of dose dose rate fractionation ldr pdr as well as hdr brachytherapy be feasible in interstitial brachytherapy for breast cancer .
 use ldr or pdr as a boost a typical dose of 15 gy be give after complete resection and 45 gy whole breast irradiation .
 after incomplete resection a dose of 25 gy be recommend .
 in definitive non-surgical treatment this boost dose may escalate to 25 gy .
 the recommend dose rate be cgy h 1 for ldr 8 and and gy pulse every hour for pdr .
 typical hdr boost after resection of the tumour and 45 gy whole breast irradiation use gy in one fraction or dose up to gy in four to six gy fraction .
 assuming an of gy for acute reaction this correspond to gy in two gy fraction per day .
 assuming an of 3 gy for late effect this correspond to gy in two gy fraction .
 in brachytherapy alone perform in select case after complete surgery the recommend dose be 45 gy ldr pdr deliver in 96 h or 32 gy in eight hdr fraction in 4 d 26 and 54 .
 result of brachytherapy and comparison to other boost modality recently three randomised trial 2 and 45 have confirm the hypothesis based on retrospective study that an increase in dose may lead to a decrease in local recurrence rate by a factor the absolute impact however seem to be high in woman under year old lr with boost for no boost than in postmenopausal woman lr with boost without boost .
 on the other hand poor cosmetic outcome have also be correlated with radiation dose to the breast skin radiation teleangiectases and breast tissue retraction due to fibrosis the latter depending not onlyon rt dose but also on the treat boost analysis of the leuven datum show an upward nipple retraction of 1 mm on the average for every gy above gy .
 several group have also indicate the influence of boost volume on cosmetic outcome 3 31 and 32 .
 data report by the amsterdam group relate the incidence of severe fibrosis to the boost volume every doubling of the boost volume start from ml shift the tolerance dose for severe fibrosis with .
 for develop skin teleangiectases the tolerance dose be rather low a dose of gy deliver in 2 gy fraction to this vessel result in teleangiectases in of the case .
 this vessel be locate in the first 5 mm of the breast skin beneath the epidermis .
 depending on the energy and the beam angle of the photon beam this vessel already receive gy from whole breast irradiation .
 therefore the contribution of the boost to skin dose should be keep minimal .
 different method for boost the tumour bed be available for the radiation oncologist .
 external beam irradiation with reduce field photon beam electron beam intraoperative electron beam radiation interstitial implant either peroperatively or postoperatively perform and recently also imrt .
 the choice be often based on the personal preference and training of the radiation oncologist involve or on the available infrastructure in the hospital .
 in many case patient in the same hospital receive a boost with the same treatment technique .
 however the choice should rather depend on objective individual patient characteristic such as the size of the breast and the size and localisation of the target in case of deeply seat tumour it can be theorised that technique such as interstitial implant or imrt might offer a potential advantage because of well adaptation of the treat volume to the target .
 in those case small volume can be treat and low skin dose deliver compare to standard external electron beam boost .
 analysis of irradiate boost volume in the eortc boost no boost trial unpublished datum 1995 and from the graz-linz study 18 and 19 indeed show a threefold volume decrease in patient treat by interstitial implant as compare to external beam technique and implant .
 despite the low boost volume treat with bt no decrease in local control rate be observe in the study concern 18 and 19 datum present at the ecco meeting in istanbul and bartelink personal communication at the gec-estro breast consensus meeting in stresa .
 so if appropriately apply interstitial boost can treat the boost ptv much conformably and reduce the amount of non-target breast tissue in the boost irradiation without jeopardising local control .
 on the other hand the skin spare effect of an interstitial boost depend on the depth of the boost ptv depth determine the choice of the electron beam energy and the fall-off dose to the skin vessel of the implant .
 the poor cosmetic outcome relate to high-energy electron beam boost be already recognised in 1983 by ray and fish .
 they find irradiation with a 12 mev or high energy electron beam to be the much significant parameter relate to poor cosmetic outcome .
 also at guy hospital the incidence of late skin teleangiectasia be only see in patient who receive skin dose above gy .
 this datum confirm the experimental work of turesson and notter that appearance and degree of skin teleangiectasia be dose dependent table 1 .
 table incidence of grade 1 3 teleangiectasia in the skin at 5 year as a function of dosea full-size table 2k a adapted from turesson and notter .
 view within article depending on the energy of the photon beam and the beam angle the skin vessel in the build up zone of the tangential field will receive of the target dose gy which be already at the limit of tolerance dose of grade 1 teleangiectasia .
 any additional irradiation by the boost may be enough to pass the tolerance limit .
 we calculate that for target depth deep than 28 mm beneath the epidermis electron beam with energy high than 9 mev deliver much than of the target close to the skin vessel .
 this offer the possibility to reduce the incidence of teleangiectasia when the source be implant at a sufficient distance from the epidermal surface .
 by do so the leuven group be able to reduce the incidence of skin teles on patient with a 15 gy implant from to .
 despite the theoretical advantage of deliver a highly conform boost to the tumour bed with reduction of unnecessary treatment of non-target breast tissue and skin the datum from the literature particularly the cosmetic outcome datum be not always support this concept the main reason be probably a non-precise positioning of the boost to the target and to the breast skin at least in the old report series .
 local control rate table 2 show the local control rate report after external beam boost and interstitial implant .
 table local control rate after brachytherapy boost compare to external beam boost in breast conserve treatment full-size table 17k agroups not strictly comparable implant patient be young below year old below year old for electron and little frequently treat with quadrantectomy .
 ball point have close margin 2 mm but implant patient have be young 51 62 year old p .
 crandomised trial .
 view within article much study such as the retrospective analysis by and and a randomised trial publish by show well local control for implant patient .
 also in the eortc boost no boost trial subgroup analysis show a non-significant but probably well local control rate in implant patient p but patient be not randomised for boost modality in this large study datum present at the ecco meeting in istanbul .
 find a non-significant difference in local failure rate .
 this be for year for interstitial and for electron boost p .
 however both group be not strictly comparable implant patient be young below year old below year old for electron and little frequently treat with quadrantectomy both factor be know as crucial for local control .
 only the datum from suggest a ill outcome of implant case although not significant .
 in this small series with a very unbalanced risk profile implant patient be also markedly young 51 year old than non-implanted patient 62 year old p .
 this apparent well local control rate and this despite the small boost volume treat be explain by several hypothesis .
 it be attributed to the high nominal and biological effective dose that be deliver by an implant or may be well boost localisation method see above use in brachytherapy in contrast to position of electron beam boost .
 anyway the nominal dose to an electron boost be the maximum dose the target be encompass by the peripheral dose .
 in interstitial brachytherapy the nominal dose be at the minimal peripheral dose usually of the mean central dose and be steadily increase towards the implant source .
 the prescribe dose be also deliver in a very short total treatment time instead of d or much .
 the time factor be indeed important in obtain local control in breast cancer .
 report a significant effect of dose rate on local control .
 five-year local control be with dose rate high than cgy h 1 and for low dose rate .
 this author recommend a dose rate of cgy h 1 to maximise local control .
 report 289 case and find a significant increase in local failure rate when ldr dose rate be below cgy h 1 they note local failure 5 for high dose rate up to cgy h 1 p .
 there be also significantly much complication and poor cosmesis observe if dose rate exceed cgy h 1 p .
 a dose rate of cgy h 1 be therefore currently advocate as probably be the optimal dose rate for ldr and pdr brachytherapy .
 cosmetic outcome for cosmetic outcome the datum be little consistent than those for local control rate .
 table cosmetic result after brachytherapy boost compare to electron beam boost retrospective study full-size table 25k e excellent g good .
 a el pts receive whole breast rt with cobalt is pts with 6 mv linac .
 view within article the early report on cosmetic outcome after interstitial implant come from the early experience in the usa .
 they have put the use of iridium implant in breast conserve treatment somewhat in disgrace .
 ray and fish report first experience with 23 patient in 1983 and compare cosmetic outcome to those in patient treat with electron beam .
 it might be assume that technical performance in early experience be not optimal and correct skin-source distance might not have be maintain accord to what have be propose later on as a logical strategy to improve cosmetic outcome .
 in 1986 report in an abstract on badly cosmetic outcome in interstitial boost patient but there be a major difference in follow-up time which be only 29 month in the electron beam group 54 month in the iridium group .
 it be clear that at least a follow-up time of 36 month be need to evaluate late effect of radiation on breast retraction and skin damage and that imbalance be in favour of the electron beam patient with the very short follow-up .
 report on the early harvard experience note a significant badly cosmetic outcome with interstitial boost excellent result than with external beam boost or if no boost be give excellent result p .
 this might have be relate to the volume implant and dose deliver which be both significantly high in the implant group .
 de la and find no difference between both boost type but the cosmetic result in series be influence primarily by the surgical technique resected breast volume scar orientation and skin resection and by the use of concomitant chemotherapy .
 fourquet and also do not find significant difference while have ill outcome with implant .
 however in this study implant patient receive whole breast beam rt with while electron beam boost patient have whole breast rt deliver by a 4 6 mv linear accelerator which lead to well dose homogeneity and low skin dose .
 and recent publication by and find the cosmetic result after interstitial brachytherapy to be superior to external boost with little fibrosis and skin teleangiectases .
 in the graz-linz series it be interesting to note that the significant decrease in fibrosis from for electron beam boost to for implant be consistent with a threefold reduction of the treat boost volume from ml in electron to 21 64 ml for brachytherapy .
 furthermore there be also a significant reduction in radiation teleangiectasia from for electron to for implant lead to good and excellent result in of brachytherapy boost patient and in electron beam boost p .
 impact of boost localisation technique breast irradiation be usually perform in a postoperative setting .
 to be able to localise the boost target area the radiation oncologist should have knowledge of exact size and location by a careful clinical description preoperative mammogram ultrasound or detail pathological report on tumor size and free margin' s width the surgeon should make incision directly over the tumour bed and placement of surgical clip might help to localise the target volume .
 the use of postoperative ultrasound or ct may improve the localisation precision and reduce side effect and possibly breast recurrence by eliminate geographic miss localisation boost 33 and 43 .
 by mean of ct and marker clip it have be possible to reduce the volume of the boost and to apply the boost with increase accuracy and far improving local control rate .
 hammer report a reduction of the 5-year local failure rate in t1 and t2 stage from without clip to only with clip .
 at the same time they be able to further reduce boost volume from 39 ml range 21 64 ml without clip to 29 ml range 21 ml with clip .
 however the increase in local control may also have be due to an improvement in the surgical method and in pathological evaluation .
 in addition the indication for pre- and postmenopausal systemic therapy have be extend in the last few year and this also have contribute to improve treatment result .
 intraoperative boost have be advocate to improve the localisation of interstitial implant 22 and 29 but have not result in well local control rate 5 year failure rate and certainly no well cosmetic outcome .
 hennequin at the gec-estro teaching course in paris report excellent cosmetic result after postoperative hdr implant only after preoperative implant .
 based on the same concept of ballistic selectivity treat boost volume and skin dose deliver by external beam rt can also be improve by intraoperative ebrt or imrt .
 however until now for breast cancer there be no mature datum available that have demonstrate any advantage over local control or cosmesis .
 brachytherapy only after breast conserve surgery recently brachytherapy alone after breast conserve surgery have be put forward as a potentially very attractive technique because of be time and money spare .
 however the use of this wide field interstitial brachytherapy as the sole radiation treatment after breast conserve surgery without whole breast irradiation be still very controversial .
 the rationale for the irradiation of only a limited volume be based on the observation that select low risk patient may have a very low risk of multifocal disease in the breast .
 this patient might not need a whole breast rt .
 in the well know study by it be demonstrate that after removal of the primary mass residual tumour be still present in when a margin of 2 cm be take beyond a margin of 3 cm and beyond 4 cm .
 however in a late study the same group conclude that in patient where no extensive intraductal component be present only have residual disease beyond a 2 cm margin .
 in a similar study by gump residual tumour be find in only beyond a 2-cm margin in select patient with tumour little than 2 cm and exclude invasive lobular and eic positive cancer .
 the early result in unselected patient however be not encourage .
 local recurrence rate of 15 with a follow-up from to 8 year have be note .
 however there be some indication that this approach might possibly be of value in strictly select low risk patient over year old with low or moderate grade t1 t2 with negative section margin and no presence of an extensive component of intraductal carcinoma table 4 .
 table local failure rate after brachytherapy alone as sole treatment modality after breast conserve surgery in select patient review of the literature full-size table 12k view within article initial finding of this trial be promising with local recurrence rate of per year of follow-up in the first year which be comparable to local recurrence rate after bcs and whole breast irradiation in low and moderate risk patient .
 however long follow-up and careful assessment in phase iii trial be need before this be consider as a routine treatment in patient with a low or moderate risk for local recurrence .
 conclusion boost irradiation of 15 gy after breast conserve surgery and whole breast irradiation relatively reduce the risk for recurrence by a factor the need for implementation of the boost depend on the absolute risk .
 the need for a boost be little compelling in low risk postmenopausal patient than in young premenopausal woman .
 brachytherapy offer the theoretical advantage of treat small volume to high dose to the tumour bed and low dose to the skin .
 despite the small volume treat no badly local control rate be obtain .
 on the contrary in the majority of retrospective study and in the only randomised study local control rate be superior for brachytherapy .
 this be attributed to the high dose deliver with brachytherapy the short treatment time or the use of well localisation technique .
 the ballistic advantage of breast brachytherapy can only be exploit when technical performance be meet high quality standard .
 special attention have to be pay to boost target localisation and position of active source at a sufficient distance from the skin as well above the implant as at the entrance and exit point of the source carrier .
 the high dose plateau of an implant extent calculate by msm margin should not overlap the dermal vessel locate in the first 5 mm beneath the skin surface .
 the treatment of breast cancer with wide implant brachytherapy after breast conservative surgery show promising early result in strongly select low risk patient .
 information regard the result of modern treatment be limited .
 the aim of this paper be to present the result of a retrospective study include 71 case of male breast cancer treat at the national institute of oncology in rabat morocco over a 14-year period .
 patient and method seventy one male patient with breast cancer be treat at institute between the year 1985 and sample represent of all breast cancer report during this period .
 the median age be year range 32 97 year .
 full-size image 5k frequency distribution by age at diagnosis .
 view within article the record history have be characterize by traumatism in two case cirrhosis in one case and a family history of breast cancer sister die of breast cancer in one case .
 the average duration of symptom be 35 month range 3 month .
 the principal clinical complaint be retroareolar lump in of case 61 patient .
 the tumour be associate with breast ulceration in of case 13 patient .
 nipple discharge be find in of case four patient .
 symptoms relate to the presence of metastases be observe in of case three case .
 the diagnosis work include mammography in 13 case breast ultrasonography in five case biopsy in case and positive needle aspiration in three case .
 according to the tnm classification patient be categorize as t4 and t3 in respectively and of the case .
 patient be class as n1 and n2 respectively in and of the case .
 eighteen percent of the case initially have metastases .
 full-size image 5k tnm classification .
 view within article the treatment consist of radical mastectomy in 48 case modify radical mastectomy in seven case total mastectomy without axillary node dissection in four case and lumpectomy in one case .
 pathological analysis of the specimen reveal infiltrate ductal carcinoma in 65 case infiltrate ductal carcinoma with paget' s disease of the nipple in one case and other carcinoma in five case .
 according to the scarff bloom richardson grade grade ii be predominant of the case .
 axillary lymph node contain metastasis in of the case 39 patient .
 twenty-six percent of the case patient have little than three lymph node involve .
 seventy-four percent of the case 29 patient have much than four lymph node involve .
 fifty-nine percent of the case 23 patient have positive lymph node with extra-capsular extension .
 examination of the hormone receptor be do in five case .
 four patient have positive hormone receptor and one patient have negative hormone receptor .
 adjuvant radiation therapy be give to the chest wall and regional lymph node in 44 case with a mean dose of gy .
 fifty-three patient receive hormonal therapy as adjuvant situation tamoxifen in 46 case tamoxifen with castration in four case and castration in three case .
 seven patient receive it in palliative situation .
 chemotherapy be give in neoadjuvant situation in five case in adjuvant situation in 12 case advance stage and in palliative situation in three case .
 result thirteen patient be lose to follow-up .
 fifty-eight patient be followable of the case .
 the median of follow-up be month range 3 168 month .
 after a median of 36 month range 9 156 month of delay local recurrence occur in five case .
 fourteen patient develop metastasis .
 the median delay of metastasis be 12 month range 4 72 month .
 the site of metastasis be the bone in six case the lung in five case the liver in one case the liver and skin in one case and the pleura and skin in one case .
 the evolution have be characterize by progression in one case .
 three patient die the death be relate to lung metastases in one case and to comorbid disease cardiovascular disease in the other two case .
 discussion mbc be an uncommon disease it represent little than of all malignancy in man and be responsible for of male cancer death 1 and the prevalence of mbc increase with age with a mean age of 65 year at presentation the high rate of this disease occur in africa egypt zambia north america and great britain risk factor be represent by advanced age previous chest wall irradiation a family history of breast cancer in male or female and relative hyperoestrogeny due to testicular abnormality exposure to exogenous oestrogen liver dysfunction and klinefelter' s syndrome familial susceptibility to mbc have be link to the brca2 locus on chromosome 13q .
 brca1 on chromosome 17q which be link to female breast cancer have show no linkage to mbc 4 and mbc be usually diagnose at an advance stage with a typical subareolar mass associate with nipple involvement and axillary lymph node 5 and because the male breast contain only ductal tissue much mbc be ductal type predominantly invasive ductal carcinoma .
 molecular marker for oestrogen receptor positivity occur in up to of the case the much common surgical procedure be modify radical mastectomy with axillary node dissection .
 adjuvant radiotherapy have an important role in reduce the risk of local recurrence in large tumour lymph node and muscle involvement tamoxifen be the much widely use adjuvant therapy because it improve survival .
 but it may be associate with much limit side effect in man than in woman like decrease libido weight gain hot flush mood alteration depression insomnia and deep vein thrombosis there be no evidence confirm that chemotherapy improve long term survival .
 nonetheless in some study the survival curve suggest a temporary benefit to patient with positive lymph node 6 7 and the much important prognostic indicator of breast cancer be tumour size and axillary node status .
 the expression of hprl in the pituitary be regulate by multiple signal pathway mediate by epidermal growth factor egf second messenger and camp and other hormone such as dopamine thyrotropin-releasing hormone trh thyroid hormone estrogen and glucocorticoid baudhuin et and freeman et .
 as a pleiotropic and versatile hormone prl exercise much than biological activity through binding to cognate receptor bole-feysot et 1998 and goffin et .
 in human the well know function of prl be to stimulate growth and development of the mammary gland ultimately lead to milk production and secretion horseman 1999 hovey et goffin et and grimm et .
 mounting evidence from cell culture and animal study as well as from epidemiological study hankinson et 1999 vonderhaar 1998 vonderhaar 1999 llovera et llovera et ben-jonathan et and clevenger et allow us to appreciate the contribution of hprl to the pathogenesis and progression of human breast cancer .
 however anticancer therapy design to block expression and secretion of pituitary lactogenic hormone hprl and growth hormone have have little effect on patient with human breast cancer .
 research as well as that of other clevenger et 1995 clevenger et and ben-jonathan et provide an explanation for this observation local expression of hprl create an autocrine paracrine loop within the human breast .
 in addition to the mammary gland prl be also produce locally by multiple other extrapituitary site include the placenta uterus bone prostate brain and immune system ben-jonathan et 1996 freeman et clevenger et and nevalainen et 1997 .
 prl mrna be detect in both normal and neoplastic human breast tissue as well as in human mammary cell line include mcf-7 t47d zr75-1 and mda-mb-468 derived from breast epithelial carcinoma clevenger et 1995 ginsburg and vonderhaar 1995 shaw-bruha et 1997 and vonderhaar 1999 .
 human prl protein be also detect in t47d cell and er-negative derivative t47dco cell ben-jonathan et and ginsburg and vonderhaar 1995 .
 additionally t47d cell contain both er and er vladusic et and vonderhaar 1999 make them excellent candidate for study on estrogen regulation of synthesis of hprl in breast cancer cell .
 that hprl antagonist block cultured mammary tumor cell growth far support the existence of an autocrine paracrine loop fuh and wells 1995 ginsburg and vonderhaar 1995 and chen et .
 whereas mammary epithelium-derived prl may play a role in normal mammary development and human breast cancer progression the regulation of hprl in mammary tissue and human breast cancer cell be not understand .
 extrapituitary prl expression be mainly regulate by a distal promoter locate kb upstream to the pituitary promoter berwaer et 1994 and gellersen et 1994 .
 as a result of alternative promoter usage extrapituitary prl be regulate by different signal pathway and different hormone cytokine or neuropeptide compare to regulation in the pituitary ben-jonathan et 1996 and goffin et .
 prl expression via the extrapituitary distal prl promoter have also be demonstrate in primary leukocyte and in leukemic cell line .
 it also have be report that the distal promoter be functional in many human breast cancer cell such as t47d zr75-1 mda-mb-231 and mda-mb-453 cell baudhuin et and shaw-bruha et 1997 .
 here we present evidence that estrogen directly induce hprl gene expression in er er-positive t47d human breast cancer cell .
 we have identify a functional non-canonical estrogen responsive element ere and an ap1 site locate in the hprl distal promoter through which estradiol e2 act .
 gel shift and chromatin immunoprecipitation assay show that both er and er directly bind to the ere but only er interact with ap1 protein that bind to the ap1 site in the hprl distal promoter .
 promoter reporter gene study demonstrate that both the ere and an ap1 site be require for full induction of the promoter activity by e2 .
 study suggest that the interaction between estrogen er the ere and ap1 transcription factor in regulation of autocrine paracrine prl in the human breast may be critical for oncogenesis and may contribute to progression of breast cancer .
 material and .
 cell culture and reagent .
 t47d and mda-mb-231 human breast cancer cell line be obtain from the american type culture collection manassas va usa .
 the cell be routinely maintain in rpmi supplement with fetal bovine serum fbs invitrogen gaithersburg md usa insulin 1 g ml sigma aldrich louis mo usa penicillin u ml and streptomycin g ml invitrogen .
 cyclohexamide chx 17 estradiol e2 genistein actinomycin d and be purchase from sigma .
 ici be obtain from astrazeneca pharmaceutical lp wilmington de usa .
 trisphenol ppt and bis 4 hydroxyphenyl -propionitrile dpn be purchase from tocris cookson ellisville mo usa .
 4-methyl-5- 4- 2- 1 piperidnyl ethoxy -phenyl-1h-pyrazole diyl -bis-phenol hcl mpp be obtain from obiter research urbana il usa .
 semi-quantitative rt-pcr .
 total rna be extract from ethanol etoh vehicle control or e2-treated t47d cell use trizol reagent invitrogen .
 dnase invitrogen treat rna be reverse transcribe use mmlv reverse transcriptase invitrogen prime with oligo-dt and random hexamers in a final volume of 25 l .
 the cdna be then subject to pcr amplification use specific gene primer and pcr master mix roche molecular biochemical indianapolis in usa .
 negative control for reverse transcription lack rt enzyme while pcr-negative control be perform in the absence of rt product .
 the primer for hprl be forward 5-ggtgtcaaacctgctcctgt-3 and reverse 5-gtggcaagggaagtgtg-3 .
 the pcr condition be 94 c for 5 min follow by 94 c for 1 min 59 c for 1 min and 72 c for 2 min for cycle with a final extension at 72 c for min .
 gene expression level determine by rt-pcr be express relative to the constitutive level of human gapdh determine use the primer forward 5-tgaaggtcagagtcaacggatttggt-3 and reverse 5-catgtgggccatgaggtccaccac-3 .
 the pcr condition be 94 c for 45 s c for 45 s 72 c for 2 min with a final extension at 72 c for 7 min .
 for a give experiment pcr be perform use a predetermine number of cycle that span the linear range for the sample test 26 cycle .
 rt-pcr product be resolve by agarose gel electrophoresis visualize with ethidium bromide and quantify use nih image .
 semi-quantitative rt-pcr analysis be conduct on triplicate replicate from at least two separate experiment .
 we have previously show that this semi-quantitative method be consistently robust and reproducible with result that be comparable to sybr green quantitative rt-pcr method .
 plasmids transient transfection and luciferase assay .
 plasmids contain er er and splice variant cdna be gift from steve safe texas am university and richard miksicek physiology department michigan state university respectively .
 the hprl promoter luc reporter construct luc 2934 luc and inpgl2 vector kindly provide by gabriel dimattia the university of western ontario ontario canada be use for deletion and mutation analysis .
 deletion construct span from or 678 be produce by digestion of luc with kpni plus pvuii or ndei and religation with t4 dna ligase .
 separately mutation be introduce into the ere and ap1 site of the promoter fragment use a quikchange ii xl site-directed mutagenesis kit stratagene lajolla usa and mutate 5 primer as follow ere ggaggagaagctattgtaatatgcacggcaagataacctggag ap1 gtgttgactgagaagctgtttgagagaaaagaggcatcattaagg .
 transient transfection be perform use fugene6 reagent roche applied science indianapolis in usa at a ratio of 1 g dna to 3 l of fugene6 .
 t47d or mda-mb-231 cell be seed into six-well plate at cell ml in phenol red free medium with charcoal strip fbs gemini bio-products sacramento usa 24 h prior to the transfection .
 each well be transfected with 1 g of empty vector ev er er or er3 er variant lack the dna binding domain use only in the er-negative mda-mb-231 cell g of dprl luc and g prl-tk .
 after 24 h the medium be change and the cell treat with or without e2 for 24 h or as indicate .
 cell extract be prepare by wash the cell twice with phosphate buffer saline ph lysed with 1 reporter lysis buffer promega and centrifuged at rpm for 2 min at 4 the supernatant be use for reporter gene assay or store at c until use .
 firefly and renilla luciferase activity be measure by the dual luciferase assay system promega madison wi usa use a lumat luminometer .
 electrophoretic mobility shift assay emsa nuclear extract be obtain from t47d cell treat with or without e2 .
 extraction of nuclear protein and emsa be perform as describe .
 briefly sense and antisense oligonucleotide corresponding to 1177 to 1144 erep sense 5-tgtaatatgcaggtcaagataacctggagaaagg-3 antisense 5-cctttctccaggttatcttgacctgcatattaca-3 982 ap1p sense 5-gaaaagatgaatcattaagga-3 antisense 5-tccttaatgattcatcttttc-3 of the dprl promoter consensus ere sense 5-caaagtcaggtcacagtgacctgatcaaaga-3 antisense 5-tctttgatcaggtcactgtgacctgactttg-3 or ap1 promega be anneal and label with 32p-atp amersham piscataway nj usa in the presence of t4 polynucleotide kinase promega .
 emsa be perform use the gel shift assay core system promega .
 reaction be resolve by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis prior to autoradiography .
 each emsa experiment be perform at least three time .
 chromatin immunoprecipitation chip assay .
 chip assay be perform use a chip assay kit active motif carlsbad usa on cell that be either treat with etoh vehicle or e2 for 1 h .
 the concentration of etoh never exceed .
 the protein bind to dna be cross-linked use formaldehyde at a final concentration of for min .
 the protein dna complex be subsequently immunoprecipitated use 2 g primary antibody for c-fos h-125 c-jun h-79 er er or non-immune igg santa cruz biotechnology santa cruz usa .
 after reverse the cross-link by heating to 65 c for 4 h the dna be recover and analyzed by pcr .
 pcr be perform use primer that amplify the dprl promoter region include either the ere forward 5-tgagcctcaggatggttaatct-3 reverse 5-ggcaggtggcaattattctg-3 or the ap1 site forward 5-tgagtgtgatgcaagggaaa-3 reverse 5-gctactaattacctgctagacatttca-3 .
 amplification condition be as follow 4 min at 94 c follow by cycle of 45 s at 94 c 45 s at c and 2 min at 72 c with a final extension of 5 min at 72 the sample be run on a agarose gel and visualize by ethidium bromide staining .
 the chip analysis be perform three time with similar result .
 statistical analysis .
 statistical analysis be perform use statview for the mac .
 anova be use to compare the significance between treat and untreated group and result be express as mean and p .
 .
 estrogen regulation of human prolactin expression .
 in previous study we have show that hprl be produce and secrete in human breast cancer cell which be confirm by other investigator clevenger et 1995 and shaw-bruha et 1997 .
 since estrogen play an important role in regulation of hprl expression in the pituitary gland we examine the effect of e2 on hprl expression in t47d human breast cancer cell .
 this cell be choose because they synthesize significant quantity of hprl and express both er and er .
 as show in 1a e2 consistently induce hprl mrna level at a concentration of nm or great in a dose-dependent manner .
 at physiological concentration of nm e2 induce hprl mrna level by much than four-fold .
 a time course of e2 treatment indicate that hprl expression be rapidly induce upon hormone addition with a three-fold increase in mrna level obtain after 3 h of treatment and a maximal four-fold induction after 6 h .
 as this rapid effect on hprl mrna level suggest that e2 directly regulate the expression of hprl cell be stimulate with e2 in the absence or presence of the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide chx .
 treatment of t47d cell with e2 chx result in a slight increase in hprl mrna expression suggest that this transcriptional activation be not dependent on de novo synthesis of an intermediate protein but rather be directly regulate by e2 at the transcription level .
 the datum from 1d confirm that e2 activation of hprl occur at the transcriptional level since actinomycin d an inhibitor of rna synthesis completely abolish e2 induction of hprl mrna .
 full-size image 45k e2 directly regulate hprl expression in t47d cell .
 cell be cultured in the presence or absence of e2 for 6 h at the indicate concentration a or with or without nm e2 for the indicate time period b .
 triplicate sample be analyzed for hprl and gapdh mrna expression by rt-pcr and ethidium bromide-stained agarose gel electrophoresis .
 effect of cyclohexamide chx m c or actinomycin act 5 g ml d on e2-induced hprl expression in t47d cell .
 cell be treat with or without chx for 1 h or act for min before add the control vehicle etoh or e2 for 6 h .
 subsequently rt-pcr analysis for hprl and gapdh be perform as above .
 data mean present be digitized use nih image normalize to gapdh and be representative of those obtain in three separate experiment .
 c e chx e2 a e act e2 negative control with no rt positive control hprl plasmid .
 view within article .
 estrogen stimulation of human prolactin distal promoter activity .
 in order to investigate whether e2 directly stimulate hprl promoter activity t47d cell be transiently transfected with or luc promoter reporter construct and the internal control prl-tk plasmid and then treat in the presence or absence of e2 for 24 h follow by measurement of luciferase activity .
 e2-induced luciferase activity in t47d cell transfected with the or plasmid in a dose-dependent manner with a peak induction at nm but not with plasmid datum not show .
 a time course of treatment with e2 in t47d cell transiently transfected with the luc promoter reporter construct and prl-tk plasmid show that e2 induce a two-fold increase in luciferase activity as rapidly as 6 h .
 this result suggest that e2 regulate hprl gene expression through the distal promoter .
 full-size image 53k e2 stimulate hprl and hprl distal promoter activity in t47d a location of the fragment distal decidual lymphoid and proximal pituitary promoter .
 t47d cell be transfected with b or luc c and d and the internal control vector prl-tk construct and then treat with or without e2 at the indicate concentration for 24 h b and c or nm e2 for the indicate time period d follow by measurement of luciferase activity use a dual luciferase reporter system .
 the result be show in arbitrary unit with the control etoh vehicle set to .
 each bar be the mean from a representative experiment carry out in p compare to control .
 view within article .
 both er and er mediate e2-induced hprl distal promoter activity .
 estrogen regulate gene expression through binding to cognate receptor .
 two subtype of er have be identify er and er .
 therefore we utilize er agonist and antagonist with different receptor specificity to examine effect on promoter activity .
 while e2 and ici have be identify as ligand for both er and er ppt and mpp have be identify as specific ligand for er harris et stauffer et and sun et and genistein and dpn for er .
 be a complete antagonist on er but an agonist on er .
 thus the er- and er-specific agonist ppt genistein and dpn induce luciferase activity in a dose-dependent manner 3a and c .
 the er-specific antagonist mpp completely block ppt induction of promoter activity but only partially inhibit e2-mediated induction of luciferase activity .
 in contrast the pure antiestrogen ici completely abolish e2- and dpn-induced activity 3b and c .
 interestingly itself induce luciferase activity but it partially inhibit dpn-induced activity .
 this result suggest that both subtype of the er mediate estrogen 's induction of dprl promoter activity in t47d cell .
 to further address this issue we transiently transfected either er or er into an er-negative human breast cancer cell line mda-mb-231 along with luc and prl-tk .
 we find that while both wildtype er and er mediate e2 induction of the dprl promoter the induction by e2 er be to a lesser extent .
 the dna-binding domain deletion variant of er er3 also fail to fully induce the dprl promoter .
 this result show that while the e2 er pathway be able to fully activate the hprl distal promoter er and e2 er3 pathway only confer partial activation suggest that multiple mechanism be involve one of which do not require direct dna binding by the er .
 full-size image 53k both er and er mediate e2-induced hprl distal promoter a specific ligand of er and er stimulate hprl distal promoter activity .
 t47d cell be transfected with luc and prl-tk construct and then treat with or without ppt or genistein for 24 h at the indicate b effect of antagonist on e2-induced hprl distal promoter activity .
 t47d cell be transfected as above and treat with ethanol vehicle e2 nm ppt nm mpp 1 m ici 1 m alone or in combination for 24 c effect of specific ligand of er on hprl distal promoter activity .
 t47d cell be transfected as above and treat with ethanol vehicle dpn 1 m ici 1 m alone or in combination for 24 h .
 subsequently dual luciferase assay be perform and result be show in arbitrary unit with the control etoh vehicle set to .
 each bar be the mean from a representative experiment carry out in d the effect of er variant in mda-mb-231 cell .
 mda-mb-231 cell be transfected with 1 g of empty vector ev er er or er3 g of dprl luc and g prl-tk .
 after 24 h cell be treat with or without nm e2 for 24 h follow by measurement of luciferase activity use a dual luciferase reporter system with the result show in arbitrary unit with the control etoh vehicle set to .
 each bar be the mean from a representative experiment carry out in p compare to p compare to ppt dpn or e2 .
 view within article .
 estrogen stimulation of dprl promoter activity through an ere and an ap1 site .
 upon binding to er and or er estrogen regulate gene expression through a variety of mechanism include genomic and non-genomic pathway .
 in order to elucidate which dna element s be responsible for e2 induction of promoter activity we perform computational analysis of the promoter and prepare two deletion mutant .
 as show in 4b responsiveness of luc to e2 be similar to that of luc however e2 do not elicit a response from the empty vector pgl2 or the proximal hprl promoter or from dprl-678 luc .
 both ere and ap1 element can confer e2 responsiveness paech et 1997 jakacka et safe and fujimoto et .
 therefore we introduce mutation in the ere and or ap1 site and test for e2 responsiveness .
 as demonstrate in 4c while mutation in either the ere or ap1 site alone decrease e2 induction significant induction of luciferase by e2 be still observe .
 however mutation of both the ere and ap1 site completely abolish e2 induction .
 this result suggest that both ere and ap1 site present in the dprl promoter be responsible for e2 induction of hprl in t47d cell .
 full-size image 58k maximal induction of hprl distal promoter activity by e2 require both ere and ap1 a computational analysis of a 3 kb fragment of the regulatory region of the human dprl promoter demonstrate the presence of a potential binding site for er and two for ap1 .
 site mutate for emsa see 5 be indicate by arrow .
 t47d cell be transfected with or 678 luc b or luc or mutation construct c and prl-tk .
 cell be then treat with or without nm e2 for 24 h follow by measurement of luciferase activity use a dual luciferase reporter system .
 the result be show in arbitrary unit with the control etoh vehicle set to .
 each bar be the mean from a representative experiment carry out in triplicate .
 ap1 mutation in the ap1 site only ere mutation in the ere only ae mutation in both ap1 and ere p compare to control .
 view within article .
 both er and er bind the ere but only er interact with the ap1 complex .
 comparison between the ere present in the dprl promoter and the consensus ere reveal that there be one base-pair mismatch .
 in order to investigate whether er and or er bind to this non-canonical ere in the dprl promoter we perform emsa with 32p-labelled ere sequence from the dprl promoter and chip assay .
 as show in 5b e2 treatment lead to formation of two complex on this ere that be compete away with unlabelled consensus ere or the ere from the dprl promoter but not with a mutate ere .
 additionally e2 treatment cause an increase in protein dna complex formation in emsa with 32p-labelled ap1 sequence from the dprl promoter which be compete away with unlabelled consensus ap1 oligonucleotide or the ap1 sequence from the dprl promoter but not with a mutate ap1 site .
 by the chip assay both er and er antibody pull down the ere fragment .
 however only er as well as c-fos and c-jun antibody pull down the ap1-containing dna fragment .
 this suggest that both er and er bind to the ere present in the dprl promoter and that er but not er interact with the ap1 protein c-fos and c-jun bind to the ap1 site present in the dprl promoter .
 full-size image 59k e2 induce protein dna complex formation on ere and ap1 site present in the hprl distal a analysis of ere and ap1 site present in the hprl distal promoter .
 the non-canonical ere present in the dprl promoter be compare with the ere in other gene adapt from annicotte et .
 mutated basis for ere and ap1 be indicate by unbolded letter .
 nuclear extract be prepare from t47d cell treat with or without nm e2 for 1 h .
 emsa be perform with 32p-labelled erep ere site from the distal prl promoter b or ap1p ap1 site from the distal prl promoter c .
 ap1 mutation in the ap1 site only ere mutation in the ere d e2-induced recruitment of er to the ere and er to the ap1 site with c-fos and c-jun in the dprl promoter .
 chip assay be perform as describe in section after protein dna complex be immunoprecipitated use the indicate primary antibody and reversal of the cross-link the dna be recover and analyzed by pcr .
 pcr be perform use primer that target the ere or ap1 site in the dprl promoter .
 view within article .
 taken together result demonstrate that estrogen directly induce hprl gene expression in t47d human breast cancer cell through cooperative action of er on both ere and ap1 site present in the hprl distal promoter and er on the ere site .
 discussion .
 the pituitary gland be once think to be the exclusive source of hprl .
 however a variety of study have prove that hprl be also produce locally by several extrapituitary site include notably the mammary gland ben-jonathan et 1996 and freeman et .
 prl mrna have be detect in both normal and neoplastic human breast tissue as well as in human mammary cell line derived from breast epithelial carcinoma clevenger et 1995 ginsburg and vonderhaar 1995 and shaw-bruha et 1997 .
 increasing evidence support the existence of an autocrine paracrine loop in human breast tissue and cancer cell line fuh and wells 1995 ginsburg and vonderhaar 1995 and chen et .
 several study demonstrate that mammary-derived prl might play a role in normal mammary development and human breast cancer progression underscore the importance of understand the regulation of expression .
 extrapituitary prl expression be primarily regulate by a distal promoter berwaer et 1994 and gellersen et 1994 that be functional in human breast cancer cell such as t47d zr75-1 mda-mb-231 and mda-mb-453 as well as in primary leukocyte and in leukemic cell line .
 in contrast report egf stimulate the hprl pituitary promoter in human breast cancer sk-br-3 cell through proximal ap1 responsive element .
 here we present evidence that estrogen stimulate the hprl distal promoter in t47d human breast cancer cell through both ere and ap1 site .
 estrogen via cognate receptor er and er regulate gene expression through multiple mechanism .
 in the classical model upon binding with e2 dimerized er bind the specific dna element ere and transactivate transcription of target .
 recently several alternative pathway have be describe that include response element to which the er do not bind directly but rather result from interaction with other dna-bound transcriptional factor such as ap1 and sp1 paech et 1997 jakacka et safe and fujimoto et .
 several signal transduction cascade be activate by estrogen in various tissue and cell line such as the estrogen upregulation of prl gene expression in pituitary cell via the mitogen-activated protein kinase signal transduction pathway .
 other kinase pathway that appear to be activate by estrogen include the pi3-k pka and pkc pathway .
 after analysis of the hprl distal promoter many potential dna responsive element be find that be activate by estrogen .
 however deletion and mutation study demonstrate that only the promoter region include the ere and ap1 be responsive to estrogen and both ere and ap1 site be require for full induction of the promoter activity by e2 .
 fujimoto and coworkers report that environmental estrogenic chemical activate ap1 only through er but not er which be consistent with the work by .
 consistent with this observation we find that the e2 er pathway confer a much robust induction of the hprl distal promoter than the e2 er or the e2 er3 pathway in mda-mb-231 cell .
 in the dna-protein interaction study we find that both er and er bind to the ere present in the dprl promoter and that er but not er interact with the ap1 protein c-fos and c-jun bind to the ap1 site .
 it be well document that e2 and er play key role during breast development and carcinogenesis .
 the identification of er and the presence of er variant such as er3 in human breast cancer cell make the process of gene regulation by estrogen even much complicate bollig and miksicek and vladusic et .
 mounting evidence show that hprl and cognate receptor prlr be implicate in development and progression of human breast cancer hankinson et 1999 vonderhaar 1999 llovera et ben-jonathan et and clevenger et .
 the complex interaction between prl and estrogen and relationship to ap1 protein in human breast cancer have not be extensively address where human be expose with this hormone simultaneously .
 in addition to induction of autocrine paracrine prl by e2 demonstrate herein estrogen also stimulate prlr gene expression in human breast cancer cell lu et 1996 and ormandy et 1997 although the correlation between prlr and er be not consistent within the literature waseda et 1985 bonneterre et 1986 de placido et and ormandy et 1997 .
 recently have report that estradiol up-regulate hprlr gene expression through a novel er-dependent transcriptional mechanism in which both c ebp and sp1 sp3 transcription factor be involve .
 moreover a clinical study have show reduce expression of hprlr in a sub-group of breast tumor patient give tamoxifen .
 the work from laboratory and other have demonstrate that the expression of prl and prlr be find in much than of female breast carcinoma and be high than that in normal breast tissue reynolds et 1997 and trott et .
 have report that the interaction between hprl and estrogen enhance the activity of ap1 in breast cancer cell through the mapk pathway .
 thus the interaction among prl prlr estrogen and ap1 protein may cause a significant increase in the entire prl prlr autocrine system in breast cancer .
 additional study of cross-talk between prl and other pathway in human breast cancer cell will increase understanding of the key interaction that occur during the development of this disease and potentially lead to improve treatment modality .
 acknowledgement .
 this research be support by the intramural research program of the nih center for cancer research nci .
 within nursing research it have long be recognised that patient need differ dependent on the life stage and that nursing itself have develop specifically to target intervention aim at promote or maintain health in childhood school year adolescence adulthood and old age .
 life course research represent a group of methodology and conceptual issue that be relevant to research question which involve the interconnectedness of the various era of the life course .
 it have be use very little within nursing and health service research .
 however application in this study suggest that it be a technique which may benefit healthcare research when attempt to understand complex health behaviour .
 there be many approach to examine historical experience such as event history culmination of experience and evaluation or interpretation of event .
 both prospective and retrospective design have strength and weakness .
 prospective design facilitate the selection of representative sample and the ability to collect current datum .
 however they be often associate with problem of attrition conditioning and expense .
 the methodological strength of less-expensive retrospective design lie in allow the researcher to cover a lengthy time period and instant access to longitudinal datum .
 unfortunately this may be at the cost of recall memory and possible survivor bias the risk of past event be filter through present experience and the need for participant to secure social acceptance .
 the concept of the life course be introduce in the with contribution from anthropology history psychology sociology and medicine .
 evidence from empirical research use method such as historical demography sociology of aging life history and longitudinal survey have all influence the current perspective of life course research .
 much research have centre on large prospective panel survey such as the 1958 british birth cohort study follow up of individual to the age of 33 year indicate that inequality in self-related health be relate to social difference in material circumstance and of difference in individual skill and resource acquire in early life .
 up to the the perspective of the life course remain controversial as it emphasised human plasticity and the historical context of age-related pattern of behaviour and call into question the regularity of universal stage of development propose by developmental psychologist the life cycle .
 the life course perspective and associate method of datum collection have gain favour in the last few year due to a change in biographical method in general .
 for the last year the use of biographical method have move away from focusing on the present situation of an individual to the perspective of whole life or across whole family and several generation .
 today the life course framework span both the traditional humanistic interest in the quality and course of human life and the alternate approach of precision of observation and analysis .
 o'rand state that the key building block element of the new life course paradigm be event combine in event history or trajectory that be then compare across person or group by note difference in timing duration and rate of change .
 colby argue for this new perspective with a constructivist approach to life course study recognising that the individual and social change be interconnected through mutual influence .
 methodological guidance specifically relate to life course study have be publish by geile and elder and much recent information be contain in the handbook of the life course by mortimer and shanahan .
 the life course paradigm .
 the paradigm state that any point in the life span must be view dynamically as the consequence of past experience and future expectation .
 it include location in time and place history social structure culture link life influence of institution group human agency individual goal sense of self and timing chronological event .
 full-size image 29k the four key element of the life course paradigm .
 this diagram show the four key element of the life course paradigm show the interconnections between the four element of location in time and place link life human agency and timing .
 this four element determine the possible different trajectory take over the life course .
 diagram be the author 's cb own design after giele and 11 and .
 view within article .
 the first domain relate to location in time and place and describe an individual 's cultural background and period in time .
 individual and social behaviour involve different level of social and physical context and result in both general and individual experience .
 this phenomenon be term social patterning in the sociology literature and be a practice that continue through time .
 the second link life relate to social integration .
 all level of social interaction cultural institutional psychological interact and mutually influence individual behaviour .
 this social expectation or norm differ between individual but may also be similar where share family background or experience exist such as see in cohort study .
 the third human agency concern an individual 's goal orientation .
 age as it be a marker of individual development be therefore link to human agency .
 however the relationship between age and human behaviour over the life course be complex .
 a number of psychological control theory exist for explain human behaviour much of which rely on the tenant that human wish to produce behaviour that be link to an event and elicit control over environment .
 when this control fail then there be a relate negative affect when face with anticipate or actual loss of control .
 the life-span theory of development suggest that the emergence or transformation of behaviour over the life course be influence by both primary and secondary control .
 it state that primary control relate to behaviour direct at the external environment and involve attempt to change the world to fit the need and desire of the individual .
 secondary control attempt to minimize loss due to failure and boost primary control function .
 it be suggest that over the life course the control will differ due to the opportunity and barrier encounter .
 from a constructivist perspective the connection between age and human agency be not rigid and although influence by age norm it be also affect by many other factor and can show great variation as demonstrate by study of developmental regulation across adulthood .
 individual or group meet own need as a result of active decision make and organising life around personal or group goal for example be economically secure or avoid pain .
 the life course perspective include a final dimension timing of life or strategic adaptation to accomplish goal .
 individual or group respond to the timing of external event and undertake behaviour to use the resource available .
 the timing of life event therefore be see as both a passive and active adaptation for reach individual or group goal and bring together the other three element integrate historical social and individual activity .
 giele and elder suggest use this model to look at an individual 's adaptation to certain event or situation .
 when seek a methodology to describe and explore the circumstance of referral due to a family history of breast cancer the life course paradigm provide a useful theoretical framework in which to explore the referral event .
 the majority of study of health behaviour in the context of genetic risk for develop cancer have tend to focus on the psychological harm and benefit of this new information .
 this study have indicate that it be likely that other factor be also influence behaviour interest be to try to understand the much complex interrelationship between the psychological interpretation of the information and the social and political context of the person and family .
 to understand health behaviour in the context of genetic risk it would therefore be important to select a methodology capable of take into account the wide context and a holistic view of the individual and family .
 systematic review of the life course paradigm in healthcare literature .
 during the preparatory stage of the study we become aware that although the life course paradigm appear to be particularly relevant to the study there be little publish health research which have utilised this approach .
 a systematic search of the follow 8 electronic database be perform cinhal psychinfo medline web of science cancerlit embase ssci and ahci to identify if the life course paradigm have be use within the nursing literature .
 on review the indexing term for each database it be clear that none use the term life course as a major heading therefore free-text search be perform for the term life course and nursing and then combine .
 this produce 111 result .
 we then examine the abstract of all result for evidence of the life course paradigm .
 this uncover eight result from within the health literature that have use element of the life course paradigm .
 five of the paper report empirical research use a life course perspective whilst four paper be either commentary or review paper .
 three paper have use the life course framework to review the exist healthcare literature within a specific field oral healthcare mental health and childhood onset disability .
 evidence of the life course paradigm use by a prospective study of patient diagnose with coronary artery disease show that this approach can be use alongside quantitative method to give a rich insight into live with a chronic disease lukkarinen 1999 and lukkarinen .
 two paper look into the aspect of care for family member throughout the life course demonstrate the retrospective approach zhan malone beach et .
 application of the life course paradigm .
 the increase of genetic research in the last decade have result in discovery that affect the ability of health professional to give individualised risk information based on family history or dna testing .
 following the identification in 1994 of the gene responsible in much inherit breast cancer there be a sudden demand for referral that threaten to overload the oncology service in the uk the us australia and europe .
 the technique of create life course chart be describe in the context of a study aim at explore why woman at low risk little than lifetime risk of develop breast cancer due to family history represent at least a quarter of referral to specialist centre .
 exploring referral for a family history of breast cancer .
 as part of this study woman be interview to explore experience of the referral event and also prior interaction with health professional .
 the research be review by the local ethical review committee .
 all woman in this study have be referred to a family history breast-screening clinic for an assessment of personal risk of develop breast cancer .
 this nurse-led clinic be locate within an acute surgical outpatient department of a cancer centre .
 the sampling strategy follow a purposeful approach aim at maximum variation and allow for far expansion of theme emerge from the data-analysis .
 a total of 136 referral letter be receive by the hospital clinic and be review chronologically .
 all of this be write referral from a general practitioner .
 batch one consist of the first 26 letter this be review and a sample of 16 be choose which meet the follow criterion woman without a personal history of breast cancer and family represent a range of genetic risk .
 batch two consist of 96 referral 13 be choose as they meet the above criterion plus purposely sample for those who be likely to be at low genetic risk as this be emerge as an interesting area of investigation .
 batch three consist of 14 referral and this be sample for the above criterion and also select for old woman over the age of 55 year and unusual case that have not occur in the previous sample .
 this sampling procedure ensure that as interesting phenomenon emerge from the initial interview similar and also dissimilar case be select to increase the evidence for or to dispute the emerge idea .
 of all 38 woman 24 of the approach agree to participate .
 two interview be not able to be complete in the 6 week timescale from referral to interview require by the study to allow recent reminiscence of the referral event .
 women be send a letter and a patient information sheet from clinician with a reply slip to the researcher who make certain that the information have be fully understand prior to arrange an interview .
 at the time of interview none of the woman have be see in clinic .
 techniques and procedure of life course charting .
 this research use a cross-sectional retrospective design .
 the semi-structured interview be transcribe and analyse use constant comparison technique but also within the separate but complementary life course paradigm .
 in this study the interview transcript be analyse by use a ground theory approach ground theory be choose as it have the ability over other qualitative methodology to produce explanatory linkage between concept and to allow sensitivity to emerge area of interest rather than purely a rich description .
 as this research be based from within a constructivist paradigm the analysis follow a ground theory approach the analysis strategy use by this study be fully describe by eaves and consist of purposeful sampling open coding memoing constant comparison with new datum axial coding selective coding and theoretical saturation .
 complimentary to the ground theory analysis be the construction of life chart .
 the life chart be the author cb interpretation based on the construct story and event describe by the woman during the interview .
 participants be ask towards the end of the interview to describe own life and experience with breast cancer from childhood to the present day encourage them to mention specific event and feeling .
 the datum be standardised by a coding framework that organised the text chronologically for time of incidence for breast cancer diagnosis clinic referral and also chronological age .
 also important be the collection of both subjective information relate to the feeling of woman at that time and objective information such as be an onward referral make .
 initially rough diagram be make on paper indicate all the event that be mention .
 the life course paradigm bring theoretical sensitivity in term of the life course of the participant to the analysis and add a complementary perspective to the ground theory analysis .
 in this study woman be ask to discuss prior experience with breast cancer in the family .
 therefore the woman in this study be talk about a reconstruction of past which situate the past within the immediate historical and social circumstance of the present .
 this have be term the presently understand past and other form of research such as life review have reveal how an individual repeatedly reconsider and reinterprets past event in light of a vantage point of the present .
 by situate the discussion regard the family history of breast cancer and the ensue referral event in context and by evoke the presence of the author in the study the research take a narrative approach to biography as oppose to the realist and neo-positivist approach as describe by miller .
 in this study it be not the true historical situation of the past we wish to study but the current day perception of past experience in relation to breast cancer thus take a constructivist perspective and a recognition that individual relay interpretation of the presently understand past .
 one in which the researcher recognises that storyteller select the component of the story they tell reconstruct in order to convey the meaning they intend the listener to take from the story and that the historical truth of an individual 's account of an event be not the primary issue .
 the novel methodology of draw life course chart have not to knowledge be use within health service research .
 during datum collection life chart be create alongside coding of interview and help inform the sampling strategy .
 construction of life chart .
 the chart be construct use the igrafix microsoft draw package with the woman 's chronological age as the y-axis and the historical context along the x-axis .
 of note be social historical event such as the start of the nhs in provide free healthcare the start of the human genome project in the isolation of the first hereditary breast ovarian cancer gene brca1 in 1994 and the availability of specialist family history breast screening clinic on an ad hoc basis from 1997 .
 the chart indicate affective period of concern subjective turning point as identify by the woman themselves such as marriage motherhood bereavement significant period of change and objective datum period of knowledge of breast cancer in the family interaction with health professional .
 white circle represent a diagnosis event usually breast cancer in a friend or family member and the black circle be death .
 the arrow represent an interaction with a healthcare provider to discuss family history or where it be raise .
 periods of knowledge about the breast cancer history be show as a green line light grey and period of concern show as a red line dark grey .
 an example of the baseline chart be provide in this chart allow the researcher to visualise the timing of significant event across the life course and identify context in term of historical significance before breast cancer gene be identify period of the individual life infancy or adolescence and how the event of interest referral in this study be place against other significant event such as motherhood or personal illness .
 what event be chart depend on the perspective of the researcher and the main research question pose by each study .
 the chart be a powerful technique to help develop an interpretation of the possible interplay of event .
 full-size image 78k example life chart .
 this show the structure of the chart with the y woman 's age the x the historical time period of the event the trajectory woman 's remember experience in relation to familial breast cancer turn point or specific event the time of diagnosis in family member when explicit knowledge be make available about the family member diagnosis the level of concern and any interaction with health professional .
 view within article .
 the igrafix software also facilitate superimpose multiple individual chart to create multi-charts .
 use this technique it be possible to overlay one woman 's chart with another which enable the similarity and variation in experience and referral pathway to be contrast and compare .
 one example of this be to compare the chart of those woman who have only know about the breast cancer much recently compare to those who have have the knowledge for a number of year .
 this enhance understanding and a pattern emerge .
 although show variation in the time take between gain the knowledge that the breast cancer be in the family to be referred there emerge a group of woman who be motivate to seek interaction with a health professional quickly after gain the knowledge whilst other the sub-set show in 3 wait a number of year .
 full-size image 86k multiple life course chartsparticipants who have know about the breast cancer in the family for a number of year before referral .
 a multiple life course chart show 9 woman who have a long period of knowledge about the breast cancer in the family show the variation in number of interaction with health professional single and double arrow time know about risk green light grey line time period of concern red dark grey line age at time of diagnosis in relative white circle and age at relative death black circle .
 view within article .
 .
 the contribution of the life course chart to the identification of the psychosocial process of realisation of risk .
 twenty four out of the 38 woman approach agree to be interview response rate .
 in total 22 woman be interview 21 be referred from primary care and one from the hospital breast clinic .
 nineteen woman have only one or two affect family member with 14 have only either a mother or a sister affect .
 the lifetime risk of develop breast cancer for the individual be calculate .
 thirteen woman be at low little than risk 6 at medium between 16 and risk and 3 at high over risk .
 all woman describe themselves as white age range from 25 to 62 year .
 the woman be age between 1 and 62 year when first relative be diagnose with breast cancer and 11 of the woman be below 17 when relative be diagnose .
 in 13 family the close affect family member be the woman 's mother in six case a sister and the remain three case involve much distant family member .
 unlike other study explore why woman attend family history clinic the majority of woman in this study be from the low social class range 15 22 and half of the woman have no formal education after the age of .
 this study which have the referral event at core seem to have benefit greatly from the inclusion of life course chart to contribute to the identification of the psychosocial process of realisation of risk .
 the psychosocial process be develop from ground theory analysis in conjunction with review of the life chart in an iterative process .
 example be give as illustration of the datum and be not intend to show the full analysis .
 six initial category be identify personal meaningeven know mother 's history it never really bother me id13 initiation of concernit 's too close to home id3 social and family influenceyou start look after yourself because you want to be there when they be old you know id136 action interactioni have make the first step now id24 healthcare responsei think they'd think me paranoid id3 hope and expectation of referralall i want be a mammogram id 125 .
 the process of realisation of risk be find to be the main motivator behind the woman 's or the health professional 's reason for initiate referral .
 full-size image 114k the psychosocial process-realisation of risk .
 view within article .
 by use one woman 's story it can be see that the ability to observe and chart multiple domain can be powerful for identify conceptual process id 24 .
 this 22 year old woman have move house in 1997 and register with local doctor .
 during routine new patient interview the doctor ask if there be any cancer or heart disease in the have a list of them and she ask me about heart disease and a good few thing so it kind of cover a lot of thing but they kind of really stick on the cancer when i mention mother .
 full-size image 58k example of life chart id 24 confirm the realisation of risk process .
 view within article .
 the woman explain that mother have die a year ago of breast cancer the gp ask the age of onset 44 say that it would be wise to check herself as it be inherit .
 this be an instance of present focused realisation of risk hold by the health professional which be not previously present in the woman .
 in order to make a referral the gp ask for much information relate to other family member and ask the woman to return to the surgery in a few do say like she tell me to go away and think about it and she tell me first when i have all the information sort out that they want to know how many people have breast cancer and the age and when i have that information to drop it down to .
 this raise a present focused realisation of risk in the woman but do not initiate referral .
 the woman then go away concern but feel that she be not able to face the issue so soon after mother 's death and do not wish to raise the issue with the family .
 she evoke cope mechanism that allow to low level of concern result in a much unfocused realisation of think i be much shock first of all when dr b gp start explain to me and i do i want to get it done there and then but i just you know it be so soon after mother have die and you know i be sick of cancer and i just didn't want to hear about it i know sometimes which i say sometimes i think like let sleep dog lie and if it happen it happen because you just want to push it to the back of mind .
 four year later a number of instance trigger feeling of personal vulnerabilitya friend back home have recently have to undergo aggressive therapy for a bone cancer and father 's sister have be diagnose with breast cancer age year which be detect late as she do not go for if she do go in early she might not even have have to have breast remove she wait 6 month before she go in .
 i know she must have get a shock then it 's in the family and she might have want to put it to the back of mind but you put that to the back of mind .
 do you know that 's go to be always there .
 she feel that now be the time to act so go back to the i think much like as time have go on and i have get old and i know that you run away from everything like and i definitely want to do it now but it 's only now recently because a few friend of mine have get cancer at home that i think about check it out now and something can be do about itand to hear information about myself not mother not aunt just about me now just i know all about health now this be much about me myself now .
 she specifically make the appointment to see the same gp who be unavailable and see another doctor instead .
 he be not as keen to take issue as seriously but say he do not know much about what be available .
 he hold an unfocused realisation of risk .
 however a referral letter be write .
 the woman feel please that something be be do and that she be now face up to the problem .
 she feel relieve after she have be as she be now be care for and be expect to get surveillance .
 in reality this woman be at low genetic risk below lifetime risk and would not be offer any extra surveillance when she do attend the clinic .
 the contribution of the life chart to identify two element of the realisation of risk process .
 the life chart facilitate the identification of two important concept which drive the referral process those of anticipate onset and generational transference show by the highlight box in the process diagram .
 anticipated onset .
 the term anticipate onset have be apply to describe the concept of how woman feel when they acknowledge that they perceive a threat to own health from breast cancer at a specific life stage as demonstrate you see when i be in 's it didn't bother me you know i didn't think about it or worry about it or nothing like that but then when i start turn that 's when it start to prey much on mind and i would sit and think and worry and then i let it go but once i start reach 39 now this be when it be start to worry much now i have other thing on mind and like i be much active like you be then but now as i be get old i understand much and i be much wise much alert and remember mum at you see that 's what 's go through mind .
 i be next year and i have get this thing in mind that i will get cancer .
 i be convince that i will get it and that 's what 's frightening me .
 id 2 39 year old at medium risk mother develop cancer at 42 .
 feelings of anticipate onset relied upon the woman have knowledge of what age the breast cancer have occur in relative but describe much than a specific chronological age .
 example include i'm close to that age now i'm in it 's in that age group mother be 39 it will happen then .
 approaching the age of onset in an affect family member be often the motivation for seek referral .
 this have be see in another study relate to the decision to pursue genetic testing for inherit bowel cancer susceptibility and be term risky age by mcallister .
 a correlation between age at referral and the age at which a close family member be diagnose have be recently demonstrate .
 however in the current study there be negative example of this woman who describe not be concern even when they be a similar age to the affect relative .
 if other condition be present which prevent the woman think about possible vulnerability then no anticipate onset be describe .
 the reason why this woman do not have associate feeling of vulnerability be likely due to other contextual factor .
 the life map help highlight this concept by highlight particular event such as care for a sick relative or have financial difficulty and therefore not feel able to address personal health concern .
 also the ability to chart the age of the affect relative onto the woman 's own personal chart be a powerful indicator that this be a life period where feeling of vulnerability often arise .
 this ability to link life help formulate the development of the theory of realisation of risk .
 generational transference .
 the woman in this study when create meaning out of current event seem to draw upon past experience of similar event or experience in history .
 they sometimes articulate remember relative and begin to put themselves in place often when social role become similar such as motherhood .
 we have use the term generational transference to describe the concept of personally relate to an affect family member 's social role appearance or personal situation that result in a raise concern about own circumstance in relation to vulnerability to illness and death .
 women who describe this phenomenon be often approach a similar stage in the life course such as the age of onset of cancer in a relative anticipate onset'as describe above a similar social role have child at a similar age to the child of the affect relative at the time of illness have family responsibility or even just a similar personal appearance .
 example of this be give below .
 the importance of personal family experience have be highlight in many study a similar concept likeness have be recently describe by walter and emery as part of propose model of familial risk big worry be you see what it be with mum dying so young you see mum be only 39 when she pass away and i feel be that what be go to happen to me .
 i be go to be take by this illness and child be go to be leave young like i have get a young brother as well who be only like 8 when mum pass away and i be so terrify of that happen while i have get little one .
 id 15 25 year old woman who have a 7 year old son .
 where example of generational transference occur in the story of the woman the occurrence often lead to feeling of increase personal vulnerability .
 the health behaviour associate with the feeling be often facilitate or constrain by contextual factor such as the availability of a clinical service .
 the x-axis on the life chart show the rapid pace of development in scientific understanding of inherit breast cancer 1994 and also the lag between scientific discovery and the availability of specialist clinical service 1997 .
 initiation of referral .
 fifty eight interaction with health professional be describe by the woman in this study 22 interaction have lead to the current referral event and 36 historical interaction .
 this interaction be code as belong to one of three group .
 women who self-initiated the appointment directly to discuss family history self-direct 22 58 woman who initiate the discussion opportunistically when attend for another reason self-indirect 26 58 and those woman interaction be initiate by the action of a health professional hp initiate 58 .
 both a focused risk realisation and the co-existing presence of personal vulnerability seem to drive the referral process towards a much active pathway to onward referral .
 the level of personal vulnerability express by the woman seem to be correlated with pathway .
 women who travel an active pathway to referral those who initiate interaction directly seem much likely to have perceive a personal vulnerability .
 women without feeling of personal vulnerability tend to travel an inactive path and those who have be referred on the advice of health professional travel a much passive pathway .
 the amount of vulnerability feel by the woman seem to drive the referral process forward .
 those woman travel an active pathway be likely to gain an onward referral gain referral as oppose to those woman travel an inactive opportunistic pathway gain referral .
 there be some case where woman do express feeling of high vulnerability but who do not seek referral .
 this case be important as they highlight that in circumstance where woman have high level of concern about vulnerability but also hold an unfocused view of risk they seem little likely to gain onward referral .
 in some case a referral be make but this be nearly always due to the woman perceive that the health professional realised a risk and feeling oblige to refer onwards .
 in other case the woman perceive that the health professional do not feel there be a risk absent realisation of risk and discuss the issue with the woman who do not hold focused idea about what she expect to gain from referral with the result that no onward referral be make .
 a model suggest the likelihood of referral initiation be show by as this study only interview the woman follow the referral event and not the health professional the state of risk realisation show by the health professional be a subjective measure .
 full-size image 48k proposed model to predict the likelihood of a referral event take place from primary care to specialist service .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 the use of the life course paradigm as a theoretical framework and the novel development of life chart help define the core psychosocial process occur to initiate referral in the context of a perceive familial risk .
 the life chart allow visualisation of a number of factor include historical context current age life stage and timing of other relevant event such as death of a relative or diagnosis of chronic disease .
 the choice of what item be relevant to plot depend upon the research question and the event the individual or researcher wish to mark as relevant .
 this analytical approach be complementary to ground theory from gather the information to question the representation of the life chart .
 this methodology be use to address many nursing and healthcare relate research question which have a complex interplay of health social psychological and historical factor .
 as the life course paradigm have already be use theoretically to chart chronic illness it be that life course chart be develop to help understand health behaviour in many chronic disease the life chart be use in conjunction with the participant and draw together .
 life course chart therefore have strong utility in the understanding and management of health-related risk .
 use in the field of health promotion be beneficial .
 it be propose that the construction of life course chart be beneficial in explore the life experience of patient in other area of nursing practice .
 diagram of family dynamic and genograms be currently use as part of family therapy and it be possible that the historical context provide by the life chart approach be helpful in discuss change or event history within a family especially use the ability to layer each individual chart to create a multiple chart for the family .
 nursing practice often require exploration of the circumstance lead up to an illness and also the trajectory of the illness and healing process .
 the ability to discuss this with patient and ask them to tell you story have already prove an important part of nursing .
 it be possible that a life chart allow a pictorial representation of this story that can be contrast with other and use to explore the patient own journey .
 in this study the life chart help demonstrate that referral rather than be motivate by valid genetic risk be greatly influence by the psychological social or health concern of the woman .
 the model of the likelihood of initiation of referral be test far to see if the combination of risk realisation by the woman and health professional do predict the likelihood of referral .
 this study provide some evidence to suggest that when health professional be knowledgeable about the genetic risk and have the time to elicit personal concern concern can be often resolve within primary care or the woman can make an inform decision to agree to onward referral .
 a recent review of qualitative research relate to familial risk highlight a number of the concept identify in this research study and confirm the importance of qualitative methodology in identify issue important to the individual in this context .
 both qualitative and quantitative method can be utilised within the life course paradigm .
 how the tool of the method be use depend upon the basic philosophical belief about enquiry as hold by the researcher .
 the exemplar study describe here use both ground theory methodology and life course charting from within a constructivist framework allow the woman themselves to construct life story of experience relate to referral from primary care .
 this dual approach allow the use of some of the technique for enhance theoretical sensitivity from the ground theory analytical tool-kit to be apply to the life chart such as question compare and look for exceptional case .
 the action of woman in this study suggest that they be appraise situation in term of a threat or concern and often approach health professional directly .
 the outcome of such an approach seem dependant upon the availability of national health service resource in term of knowledgeable health professional or specialist clinic .
 by plot each of the 58 interaction with health professional onto the chart we find in this study in contrast to the two questionnaire study below that this woman not easily articulate why or to what service they have be referred especially those who have be referred follow advice from a health professional .
 a range of motivation for seek referral be find by van who ask 322 woman by a postal questionnaire to select from a pre-defined list of 11 motive why they be attend a cancer genetic clinic .
 they conclude that woman have own unique combination of motive for attend often influence by sociodemographic factor such as age and whether they have young child .
 much detail insight be gain by fraser et 's study of 162 individual referred instigate by a hospital doctor or gp at own instigation and by other to uk cancer genetic service .
 this study again ask participant to select on a scale of 1 5 the importance of a set of 11 motivational factor .
 they report that screening be rate as much important by those with child along with those who perceive risk of develop cancer as much high than average and those who be categorised as have high level of cancer worry .
 similar to they find that old people be much interested in attend in order to find out about the risk to other family member .
 in the above study it be difficult to assess if participant have pre-formed motivation or be prompt by select from a pre-defined list .
 this be one of only a few study to primarily involve woman at low genetic risk who have be referred from primary care .
 in effect this group represent by far the large population affect by have a family history of breast cancer .
 in total of adult woman in the uk have have a close relative develop breast cancer .
 although this group would not necessarily be expect to benefit from intensive surveillance this research provide evidence that many woman at low genetic risk be worry and seek information from health professional .
 this be in agreement with where woman at low risk be little satisfy with receive information regard risk assessment by letter and want much information than those at moderate risk .
 this highlight the important concern that health professional can sometimes raise concern unnecessarily due to the provision of inappropriate advice hetteberg et 1999 kirk 1999 and kirk kirk et metcalfe and burton .
 the study identify 58 interaction with health professional 35 58 do not result in onward referral .
 currently new technology be be develop such as computer programme that should allow health professional in primary care access to information on which to base an accurate risk assessment be be pilot .
 as nurse doctor and other work in healthcare setting be much frequently become face with question concern familial risk it be important that they be able to ellicit the potential motivation behind a referral for specialist risk assessment before make a judgment based solely on statistical risk .
 the result from this life course study raise much question in the complex area of the illness-health divide .
 many of the exist theory of health behaviour rely on a start point of either illness or health .
 health behaviour be too often represent by theoretical approach which stress cognitive process as determinant of behaviour .
 a meta analysis of study use the well-known model of theory of reasoned action and theory of planned behaviour show that only of the variance of intention and of the variance of behaviour be explain by the model .
 evidence from this study show that woman feel that they be at risk from different threatsfrom illness from carry a faulty gene and from loss of ability to maintain social role .
 it be perhaps important to consider this when design instrument to measure health behaviour in the context of have a family history of illness .
 the model of familial risk perception be develop in by walter and emery from interview with individual at risk from chronic disease due to family history .
 study concur with many of the finding from this model .
 the concept of anticipate onset and generational transference be also similar to the theme of likeness and perceive closeness mention in walter and emery 's study .
 both the psychosocial process of realisation of risk and the model of familial risk perception have element in common with leventhal 's theoretical work the common sense model of self regulation which arise from the observation that both cognitive and emotional representation of the threat be appraise before an attempt be make to control the threat .
 walter et have recently map the result of study onto element of this model and have theorised that this be a helpful way of understanding familial risk .
 conclusion .
 two question lie at the hub of much traditional social science life course research how have individual be affect by social change and how have the life course situation of some group actually influence social change the purpose of this article have be to highlight the value that life course research methodology bring to nursing research .
 possible question to consider be how have patient be affect by healthcare system and how have the life course situation of certain patient influence healthcare change this article have show that the life course paradigm allow a broad understanding of health behaviour by place behaviour in social and political context and also widen the focus from purely psychological determinant to include a temporal element as well as environmental economic social and behavioural determinant of chronic disease .
 the life chart use in this study be draw by a computer package however it be possible to discuss and draw an individual 's life chart with pen and paper .
 it would be interesting to develop the technique far with the option of much dynamic life charting at the time of interview .
 we conclude that the novel method of life course chart help to highlight similarity and difference relate to a common event make this a valuable method for examine nursing practice and patient experience .
 acknowledgement .
 we wish to thank the woman who participate in this study and alison metcalfe for advice and helpful comment on the manuscript .
 treatment choice depend on patient age menopausal status and disease characteristic .
 endocrine therapy be usually the treatment of choice for patient with potentially hormone-sensitive disease and include aromatase inhibitor ai anastrozole letrozole and exemestane anti-oestrogens tamoxifen and the new oestrogen receptor er antagonist fulvestrant and luteinising hormone release hormone mono- or polychemotherapy provide the mainstay of treatment for patient with hormone receptor-negative tumour as well as for those with very aggressive disease or tumour no long respond to endocrine over the past 5 year treatment strategy for hormone-sensitive early breast cancer have change dramatically with tamoxifen be supersede by and the introduction of other novel in contrast to the early breast cancer set where well-established consensus guideline be uniform guideline for the management of patient with advance disease be currently lack .
 guidelines can be an important tool in treatment decision make but those currently available for advance breast cancer vary geographically and may not adequately address specific patient the change in clinical practice in the early disease set and the lack of uniform guideline have raise question about optimal treatment strategy for patient who subsequently develop advance disease .
 for now physician and patient must jointly explore and select the much appropriate therapy from the complex array of option available .
 aim of this study .
 the primary aim of this study be to establish the level of need among breast cancer physician for the development of new advance breast cancer treatment guideline .
 secondary aim be to assess the impact of disease recurrence on both physician and patient to gain understanding of the goal of treatment and the factor influence physician in treatment decision for patient with advance breast cancer to gain understanding of the information source utilised and the role of current treatment guideline in the decision-making process and to gain insight into potential area of improvement for exist guideline .
 method .
 an internet-based survey be conduct between 6 and 23 february .
 breast cancer physician be direct to the survey via the european school of oncology eso website .
 response be analyse after approximately physician have complete the survey .
 a copy of the survey use in this study be include in the supplementary material .
 survey respondent and patient with breast cancer .
 survey respondent state that they be fully qualify physician treat patient with breast cancer .
 respondents be then ask to confirm the country region in which they be based and the specialist role s they have in the management of patient with breast cancer .
 it be also ascertain how many patient with breast cancer each physician see over the course of a usual year and the proportion of this patient who have early stage 1 2 or advance stage 3 4 disease .
 the emotional impact of disease recurrence .
 physician be ask to think about patient who have recently progress from early- to advanced-stage breast cancer .
 they be then ask to consider whether this patient be little about the same or much distressed at progression than when they be newly diagnose with early disease .
 again just consider this patient physician be ask whether they themselves be little about the same or much distressed than when patient have be diagnose with early disease .
 for both question they be also ask to provide detail as to why the emotional impact be little or much as appropriate .
 from this stage onwards the survey ask physician to think specifically about patient who have recently progress from early- to advanced-stage breast cancer .
 treatment goal and factor influence treatment decision for patient with advance breast cancer .
 in the next section physician be ask to rate a list of potential treatment goal for this patient .
 options include improve overall survival delay disease progression improve quality of life achieve a response and other physician be ask to specify .
 information source utilised by physician to support treatment decision for patient with advance breast cancer .
 physician be ask to rate a list of patient factor that may play a role in the treatment decision they make for this patient .
 factor include the patient 's age menopausal status treatment history er status human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 her2 status performance status size of tumour degree of nodal involvement number of metastases site of metastases comorbidity psychological state social circumstance and distance from hospital .
 physician be then ask to rate a list of treatment factor that may play a role in decision .
 factor include the treatment 's efficacy side effect contraindication cost ease of use formulation administration need for hospitalisation own personal experience and whether it be endorse by guideline or use as part of a hospital 's policy .
 for each question they also specify up to three additional factor .
 role of guideline in the treatment of advance breast cancer .
 physician be ask to rate how often they use various information source to aid treatment decision for this patient .
 source include work colleague opinion leader medical conference medical press lie press treatment guideline sale representative text book the internet and patient .
 they be also give the option of include and rating up to three additional information source .
 physician state that they never use guideline be ask if they be aware of any treatment guideline for patient with advance breast cancer and to list any that they have hear of .
 they be also ask to give reason why they do not use any of this guideline .
 if the physician frequently or occasionally use treatment guideline they be ask to name the guideline that they use .
 all physician except those state that they never use guideline be ask whether or not they agree with a list of reason why guideline be useful .
 those state that they do not currently use guideline but who think that they may be useful be also ask about the importance of the follow reason .
 the list of reason why guideline be useful include to confirm treatment decision to keep them aware of new drug to keep them aware of new clinical datum to keep them aware of new combinations dose regimen to reassure them to reassure patient to justify approach to payer to remind them of the available option to prompt far patient evaluation and to protect them from legal action .
 potential improvement to exist treatment guideline .
 physician who frequently or occasionally use treatment guideline be also ask to rate the importance of a list of potential improvement to exist guideline .
 potential improvement to guideline include be update much frequently be much specific for particular group of patient include much clinical datum include well summary page be endorse by recognised international opinion leader be endorse by cancer organisation such as eso and be easy to find .
 they be also give the option to list any other improvement that they would recommend .
 result survey respondent and patient with breast cancer .
 in total 198 questionnaire be complete .
 more than half of respondent be european be from asia and from south america with the remainder be split between north america africa and australasia .
 respondents encompass all area of medical personnel involve in the treatment of breast cancer include surgeon oncologist and radiologist .
 just over one-third of respondent state that much than of patient be be treat for breast cancer while overall approximately of breast cancer patient be treat have advance disease .
 full-size image 37k the survey respondent 's role in the management of breast cancer patient .
 view within article .
 the emotional impact of disease recurrence .
 the result of the survey show that disappointment distress level be great at first recurrence than at first diagnosis of early breast cancer for of physician and of patient .
 it be state as be about the same for of physician and of patient with only and respectively state that distress level be little than at first diagnosis of early breast cancer .
 this datum indicate that both physician and patient find first recurrence distressing and difficult .
 the main reason give by physician as to why they find recurrence much disappointing than first diagnosis be it raise question over the first treatment they prescribedwas it adequate have they let the patient down it result in a feeling of personal failure .
 disease be now incurable .
 there be fewer treatment option available to offer patient .
 it be difficult to tell patient that disease have recur .
 physician have develop a close relationship with patient by this stage .
 for the physician who find it little disappointing than first diagnosis the main reason be that recurrence have always be acknowledge as a possibility .
 there be similarity in the main reason give by physician as to why patient find this event much distressing than first diagnosis this include the knowledge that there be now no cure .
 the fear of death particularly as they perceive death from cancer as be very unpleasant .
 the patient 's confidence in both physician and treatment be shake and may lead to distrust in both .
 they expect to be cure of early breast cancer and so recurrence be a shock and cause feeling of disappointment and anxiety .
 the patient may develop depression .
 the patient fear the next treatment because of ill side effect poor quality of life and no possible cure .
 for the physician who say that patient find it little distressing than first diagnosis the main reason give be that some patient be not tell about the recurrence some have already accept that they have cancer and some patient will have already be tell to expect recurrence .
 treatment goal and factor influence treatment decision for patient with advance breast cancer .
 at this stage of the disease the goal of the treat physician be to improve the patient 's quality of life delay the progression of the disease and to improve overall survival .
 treatment decision therefore centre on efficacy of respondent potential side effect er status site of metastases contraindication and her2 status .
 in addition of respond physician state that it be important that treatment be endorse by guideline .
 full-size image 22k treatment goal for physician treat patient with advance breast cancer rank in order of importance .
 view within article .
 table .
 factor influence physician when they be make treatment decision for patient with advance breast cancer importance of factorno response importantneutralnot consider patient factor n er status189 2 site of metastases188 1 2 7 her2 status184 6 3 5 treatment history178 1 9 performance status178 13 1 6 comorbidities176 15 age172 19 2 5 menopausal status171 21 1 5 number of metastases166 25 2 5 psychological state152 39 1 6 degree of nodal involvement138 39 14 7 size of tumour127 53 13 5 social 73 16 7 distance from home to 87 35 6 drug factor efficacy194 1 side 4 2 2 contraindications185 9 1 3 endorsed by 24 2 2 personal experience149 39 7 3 ease of use143 49 4 2 need for hospitalisation133 53 2 cost127 18 3 formulation administration116 72 8 2 part of a hospital 63 24 3 full-size table .
 er oestrogen receptor her2 human epidermal growth factor receptor .
 view within article .
 information source utilised by physician to support treatment decision for patient with advance breast cancer and the role of guideline .
 much respondent use the currently available treatment guideline frequently or occasionally .
 other key source of information be medical conference the internet and the medical press .
 the much commonly use guideline include formal publication national comprehensive cancer network nccn guideline and publication from specific meeting american society of clinical oncology asco st gallen and san antonio breast cancer symposium sabcs .
 this be primarily use as reminder of the available option and to confirm a treatment decision .
 table .
 information source utilised by breast cancer physician to support treatment decision for patient with advance breast cancer source n frequency of useno response frequentlyoccasionallynever treatment guidelinesa144 48 8 medical conferences143 internet136 53 3 6 medical press132 53 6 7 work colleagues92 93 5 8 text books91 86 13 8 opinion leaders77 7 11 patients21 78 88 11 lay press13 64 19 sales representatives11 71 13 full-size table .
 a two physician give this answer twice make the total responder for this question rather than 198 .
 the percentage have be adjust accordingly .
 view within article .
 full-size image the reason why treatment guideline be useful to physician .
 view within article .
 potential improvement to exist treatment guideline .
 response suggest that breast cancer physician would welcome improvement to exist guideline include make them easy to find and have much frequent update endorsement from cancer organisation and opinion leader and well specificity to particular patient group .
 in addition respondent would like to see a worldwide consensus on treatment option with the development of global guideline include specific recommendation for the elderly those with bone metastases pregnant woman and male patient .
 guidelines for patient with comorbidity such as renal failure psychiatric problem or other malignancy would also be useful .
 the respond physician in this survey indicate a preference for easy access to a large amount of information and many suggest the use of interactive computer technology and e-mail update .
 full-size image 44k potential improvement for exist treatment guideline .
 view within article .
 discussion and conclusion .
 the result of this survey suggest that the degree of emotional impact on both breast cancer physician and patient at the time of first recurrence be great than at first diagnosis .
 result suggest that this be due to both the emotional impact of recurrence itself as well as the dilemma physician face regard how to choose the much appropriate treatment for patient with advance breast cancer .
 that level of distress be great for both party at this stage be perhaps unsurprising because for patient in this situation survey suggest that recurrence mean death while for physician recurrence imply failure .
 on both side question be likely to be raise about the adequacy and efficacy of previous treatment and confidence in the physician and future therapy may be reduce .
 in line with previous report the result of this survey highlight that the treatment goal for the physician treat patient with advance breast cancer be to improve quality of life while extend overall this point along with those raise above suggest that great effort should be make to research treatment option for patient with advance breast cancer and that the result of such trial should be disseminate effectively perhaps through the use of guideline .
 in addition the use of new technology such as interactive computer program and e-mail update may help ensure that physician be fully able to make appropriate and inform decision regard the optimum treatment strategy for patient with advance breast cancer .
 this survey show that treatment guideline be a key source of information support the treatment decision make for patient with advance breast cancer ranking alongside medical conference the internet and the medical press .
 approximately half of the survey respondent also list patient as a source of information .
 this may in part reflect the fact that patient with breast cancer be often very well inform of the available treatment option and thus may have great involvement in the treatment decision-making process than other patient group .
 the fact that patient-centred care have be show to affect treatment adherence may also have influence while some advance breast cancer guideline be currently available include both formal nccn publication and regional guideline this be limited in scope and be little consistent than those available for early breast cancer .
 respondents in this survey feel that improvement be make through the development of uniform global guideline for advance breast cancer detail treatment recommendation for specific patient group .
 although there be limitation to any survey based on a relatively small sample size due to the response and interpretation of the question be potentially subjective it appear that this result be in line with current thinking in the field .
 indeed since the time of this survey effort have be initiate by the eso together with the european breast cancer conference to produce global metastatic breast cancer mbc guideline through the creation of the eso-mbc task an initial set of 12 recommendation for the management of patient with mbc have now be interestingly this article reaffirm the notion that the treatment of mbc be consider an art as there be few approve standard of care particularly after first-line treatment have fail .
 encouragingly the factor affect treatment choice view as important in the current survey be broadly in agreement with those include in the current eso-mbc recommendation .
 the result of the present survey reinforce the importance of this initiative and the development of much detail guideline from the task force be await with interest .
 conflict of interest .
 the author andrew wardley have receive honorarium from glaxosmithkline roche astrazeneca and novartis and speaker fee from roche astrazeneca novartis and amgen .
 in addition he have receive travel support from roche astrazeneca novartis amgen and glaxosmithkline .
 acknowledgement .
 this research be fund by astrazeneca and conduct in collaboration with the eso .
 the author would like to thank sally mitchell from complete medical communication who provide medical writing support fund by astrazeneca .
 if the excise primary tumour have few oestrogen receptor ie be er-poor then the 5 year recurrence rate be high and hormonal therapy have little effect on therefore the effect of adjuvant chemotherapy be of particular interest .
 in advance breast cancer the effect of chemotherapy on macroscopic primary or secondary lesion can be observe directly and can be in early disease however the effect of chemotherapy be not directly observable in individual patient so trial be need .
 because any one trial of adjuvant chemotherapy can include too few patient with er-poor disease for statistical stability the effect of this treatment on recurrence and mortality in such woman especially in the long term be well study by periodically update meta-analyses of all relevant randomised trial .
 the early breast cancer trialists collaborative group ebctcg be set up in 1984 85 to coordinate 5 yearly meta-analyses of centrally collect datum from woman in all randomised trial of the treatment of early breast cancer .
 the report from the second and 1995 third cycle of the collaboration indicate that take all type of primary tumour together the effect of adjuvant chemotherapy on long-term outcome be on average great in woman young than year than at old age mainly 69 year since few woman old than this have be study .
 the report from the fourth cycle1 show that at age 69 year the effect of chemotherapy on mortality be on average somewhat greater than have be indicate by the previous ebctcg report .
 it be however still difficult to determine reliably the effect in particular type of patient .
 unless indicate otherwise in the present report the term chemotherapy denote prolong adjuvant treatment with various standard combination of old drug eg about six course of cmf of randomised woman or about six course of fac or fec of randomised woman where also call adriamycin and .
 none of the regimen study be taxane-based or deliberately myeloablative .
 various hypothesis have be raise about the efficacy of chemotherapy in er-negative breast cancer .
 in vitro study suggest that the presence of tamoxifen might reduce the uptake and cytotoxic activity of 5 fluorouracil and melphalan in er-negative breast cancer cell an observational study on woman with advance disease conclude that an objective response to chemotherapy be much likely in er-negative than in er-positive but later study do not replicate this find and conclude either that the response to chemotherapy do not correlate with or even that it be increase by a meta-analysis of the trial of single-cycle perioperative polychemotherapy pect versus no adjuvant include about patient with er-poor disease indicate an effect on long-term survival that be little definite than in the trial of much prolong polychemotherapy .
 this pect trial include both premenopausal and postmenopausal woman irrespective of er status and do not give adjuvant tamoxifen .
 in one of the pect trial however recurrence be reduce only in the subgroup of postmenopausal woman who have er-poor in view of this it be suggest that chemotherapy might be particularly effective in old woman with er-poor disease and no tamoxifen and that the ebctcg analysis of prolong chemotherapy should address this it be therefore agree that the first report from the fifth cycle should address the evidence regard the effect of adjuvant polychemotherapy versus no chemotherapy in er-poor disease include not only the trial in which no tamoxifen be give but also those in which tamoxifen be give to woman in both group .
 method .
 the method of seek collaboration and of datum collection collation check and presentation be as in the previous ebctcg the ebctcg receive ethical approval from the oxford research ethic committee .
 in the present cycle trial be eligible if they begin by range of actual start date 1972 96 and for much of them the late available follow-up information be resent to oxford in analyses be by allocate treatment and as previously recurrence be define as the first detection after randomisation of any breast cancer local contralateral or distant .
 for the present cycle information be available on about woman with er-poor disease in trial of chemotherapy tamoxifen or both table .
 of this about be in 46 trial of polychemotherapy versus not chemotherapy alone versus no adjuvant therapy about woman chemotherapy and tamoxifen versus tamoxifen alone about woman and about be in trial of tamoxifen versus not mostly chemotherapy and tamoxifen versus the same chemotherapy alone .
 .
 number of woman with er-poor disease by age in trial of polychemotherapy tamoxifen or both that begin before .
 age at entry year polychemotherapy versus no adjuvant chemotherapy a polychemotherapy alone v nil1722943539353239 b v same tamoxifen ie v tamoxifen alone 185125212311162784 total polychemotherapy v not 46 trial tamoxifen versus no adjuvant tamoxifen a tamoxifen alone v b v same polychemotherapy ie v polychemotherapy alone total tamoxifen v not trial .
 full-size table .
 control patient in three-way trial or trial stratum count only once .
 number of woman-years be give in webfigure 1 .
 tamoxifen and polychemotherapy be give concurrently for of woman in this trial and sequentially in the remainder .
 percentage of woman in trial of regimen contain anthracycline .
 includes six with age not know .
 tamoxifen and polychemotherapy be give concurrently for of woman in this trial and sequentially in the remainder .
 includes nine with age not know .
 view within article .
 forest plot in the accompany webmaterial give separately for each of this 96 trial and for the four trial of perioperative polychemotherapy a brief summary of the treatment regimen test and of whether the active treatment group be allocate both chemotherapy and tamoxifen the number of woman with er-poor disease treatment versus control and the main result in this woman .
 further detail of the trial and treatment regimen be give in the webappendix to the previous ebctcg .
 in this report er-poor tumour be define by receptor measurement done many year ago and different technique be use in different trial or sometimes even in the same trial .
 they therefore include not only tumour with no er expression at all er-absent but also tumour with a little er expression femtomoles per mg cytosol protein where quantitative measurement be available and perhaps some much strongly er-positive tumour with false negative receptor measurement .
 statistical analysis .
 detailed description of the main statistical method have previously be and be also available logrank statistic be use to assess the effect active versus control on outcome and to estimate by the one-step method event rate ratio and confidence result for fine subdivision be plot as black square with horizontal line that denote ci .
 the use of rather than ci be to help make some allowance for multiple testing .
 result for total and subtotal be plot as white diamond that denote ci .
 to test for a trend between stratum eg of age in the effect of treatment suppose that stratum number s 2 have logrank statistic o e and v with grand total over all stratum o e and v .
 define m the mean stratum number to be the sum one term per stratum of sv v and define t to be the sum one term per stratum of s m o e the variance of t var t be then the sum one term per stratum of s m 2 v .
 the trend test statistic ie the change from one stratum to the next in the log of the event rate ratio be then t var t which have variance 1 var t .
 test of whether two trend be the same involve subtraction of the corresponding trend test statistic from each other .
 a 2 statistic on one degree of freedom 21 for testing whether some quantity q differ significantly from zero be give by q2 var q .
 the follow two question be formally equivalent 1 whether tamoxifen reduce the proportional efficacy of chemotherapy and 2 whether chemotherapy reduce the proportional efficacy of tamoxifen .
 this can be illustrate by consider a hypothetical 22 factorial trial of chemotherapy tamoxifen both or neither .
 suppose that in one particular stratum of follow-up duration and of patient characteristic the event rate in the four treatment group be respectively chem tam both and nil .
 two different chemotherapy comparison can be make and then compare .
 for the efficacy of chemotherapy on own the rate ratio be nil and for the efficacy of chemotherapy in the presence of tamoxifen ie with tamoxifen in both group the rate ratio be tam .
 comparing a and b to answer the first question the value of b a will tend to be little than 1 if tamoxifen reduce the efficacy of chemotherapy .
 likewise two different tamoxifen comparison can be make and then compare .
 for the efficacy of tamoxifen on own the rate ratio be nil and for the efficacy of tamoxifen in the presence of chemotherapy ie with chemotherapy in both group the rate ratio be chem .
 comparing c and d to answer the second question the value of d c will tend to be little than 1 if chemotherapy reduce the efficacy of tamoxifen .
 b a be however identically equal to d c illustrate the equivalence in principle of question 1 and 2 .
 role of the funding source .
 this collaboration be fund from the general long-term financial support of the ctsu by organisation which have no role in the study design datum collection datum analysis datum interpretation or write of the report .
 this organisation be list in the acknowledgement .
 the ebctcg secretariat see collaborators have full access to all the datum and analysis .
 the final decision to submit for publication be the responsibility of all the collaborator .
 result .
 figure 1 figure 2 figure 3 and figure 4 describe various analysis of time to first recurrence .
 webfigure 1 4 show the same recurrence analysis and also give the corresponding analysis for breast cancer mortality and death from any cause .
 full-size image 51k high-quality image figure polychemotherapy versus not in er-poor disease subdivide first by type of comparison absence or presence of tamoxifen in both treatment group and then by age at randomisation event rate ratio for recurrence .
 significant .
 difference between trend in a and b .
 view within article .
 full-size image 48k high-quality image figure polychemotherapy versus not in er-poor disease subdivide first by age at randomisation and then by type of comparison absence or presence of tamoxifen in both treatment group event rate ratio for recurrence .
 significant .
 view within article .
 full-size image 29k high-quality image 242k figure tamoxifen versus not in er-poor disease subdivide first by age at randomisation and then by type of comparison absence or presence of chemotherapy in both treatment group event rate ratio for recurrence .
 significant .
 polychemotherapy in 29 trial single-agent chemotherapy in three .
 view within article .
 full-size image 183k high-quality image 1315k figure polychemotherapy versus not in er-poor disease by type of comparison absence or presence of tamoxifen in both treatment group and age at randomisation year probability of recurrence .
 view within article .
 for the trial of polychemotherapy versus not the recurrence rate ratio be subdivide in figure 1 and figure 2 both by age when randomised entry age 59 or 69 year few be old than this and by the use of tamoxifen ie by the absence or presence of adjuvant tamoxifen in both of the treatment regimen be compare .
 in figure 1 the analysis be subdivide first by the use of tamoxifen and then by age whereas in figure 2 the same analysis be subdivide first by age and then by the use of tamoxifen .
 figure 1 a describe the trial of polychemotherapy alone ie in the absence of tamoxifen and suggest a substantial proportional risk reduction that be approximately independent of age although if each age range be consider separately then the confidence interval for the effect at age 59 and 69 year be both wide .
 by contrast in the aggregate of all trial of polychemotherapy versus not section in the low part of figure 1 the proportional risk reduction appear to be about twice as great at entry age little than as at entry age 69 and there be a conventionally significant trend towards great efficacy of chemotherapy at young age treatment versus control recurrence rate ratio se at entry age year and se at entry age 69 year test for trend of great effect at young age .
 this be because in the presence of tamoxifen there be a trend towards a great effect of chemotherapy at young age figure 1 b .
 the apparent difference between the trend with age in figure 1 a and 1 b be however not conventionally significant footnote to figure 1 .
 that be the apparently null trend with age in figure 1 a and the apparently strong trend with age in figure 1 b be both compatible with the moderate trend with age in the overall result in figure 1 .
 within each of the age range of woman young than 59 and 69 year in figure 2 tamoxifen do not significantly modify the effect of chemotherapy .
 in the first two age range and 59 figure 2 a and 2 b chemotherapy appear somewhat much effective in the presence of tamoxifen whereas in the third 69 figure 2 c it appear somewhat little effective in the presence of tamoxifen .
 in no age range however be this apparent difference in efficacy statistically significant nor be an overall age-stratified test of whether tamoxifen influence the efficacy of chemotherapy figure 2 .
 although figure 2 c be take as evidence that tamoxifen reduce the efficacy of chemotherapy in woman age 69 figure 3 c provide evidence against this .
 for in figure 3 c the effect of tamoxifen plus chemotherapy actually appear somewhat well than that of chemotherapy alone .
 this be the opposite of what would be expect if tamoxifen reduce the efficacy of chemotherapy .
 taken together the opposite interaction in figure 2 and figure 3 neither of which be statistically significant suggest that tamoxifen i of little relevance to the efficacy of chemotherapy in er-poor disease .
 the statistical method section illustrate the equivalence of this two question .
 the result for breast cancer mortality and death from any cause webfigure 1 3 be similar to those for recurrence except that the trend with age do not reach statistical significance .
 also if the 69 age range be consider on own then the mortality reduction in the trial of chemotherapy be not conventionally significant in the absence of tamoxifen in the presence of tamoxifen or in both combine age 69 only overall relative risk se for breast cancer mortality and se for death from any cause both .
 figure 4 show the year recurrence risk for polychemotherapy versus not subdivide as in figure 1 and figure 2 by age and by the use of tamoxifen whereas figure 5 show the corresponding year result for death from any cause .
 the year difference just in breast cancer mortality be similar to those in death from any cause webfigure 4 .
 full-size image high-quality image 1283k figure polychemotherapy versus not in er-poor disease by type of comparison absence or presence of tamoxifen in both treatment group and age at randomisation year probability of death from any cause .
 view within article .
 in figure 4 and figure 5 as in figure 1 the upper part a give the age-specific result in the absence of tamoxifen the middle part b give the age-specific result in the presence of tamoxifen and the low part give the overall age-specific result .
 in no age range be the difference significant between a the absolute effect of chemotherapy in the absence of tamoxifen and b the absolute effect of chemotherapy in the presence of tamoxifen .
 the overall result ie the low part of figure 1 figure 4 and figure 5 be of course based on large number than a or b alone .
 even here information be available on only about woman in each of the three age range 59 and 69 year .
 this be still not enough for result in individual age range to be numerically stable particularly for mortality in the old age range .
 thus although the mortality reduction at age 69 be not conventionally significant on own it should be interpret in the context of the highly significant mortality reduction at age in assess the effect of chemotherapy in old woman it might be appropriate to consider the datum in this two year age range together give the small number who be randomised .
 the overall result in this year age range 69 and in young woman be give in figure 6 and in webfigure 5 and 6 which compare the finding for recurrence breast cancer mortality and death from any cause .
 in both age range and 69 year the effect of chemotherapy on the year probability of death from any cause be highly significant age year v dead absolute difference se 23 age 69 year v dead absolute difference se 17 .
 the effect on death from any cause be about the same as the effect on breast cancer mortality figure 6 suggest little effect of this regimen on year non-breast-cancer mortality even at 69 year of age .
 full-size image 122k high-quality image 874k figure all trial of polychemotherapy versus not in er-poor disease for patient with age and 69 at randomisation year probability of i recurrence ii breast cancer mortality and iii death from any cause .
 comparison in figure 4 and figure 5 pool datum from all unconfounded randomised trial of prolong adjuvant polychemotherapy irrespective of whether or not tamoxifen be include in both of the treatment regimen be compare .
 view within article .
 in young woman year in this trial have node-negative disease and only have node-positive disease whereas of those age 69 year have node-positive disease .
 recurrence rate be much high in node-positive than in node-negative woman but despite this neither the age-stratified nor the age-specific proportional risk reduction be significantly affect by nodal status and and for age-group 59 and 69 respectively .
 the corresponding result for breast cancer mortality and death from any cause be give in webfigure .
 the three part of webfigure 8 give far subgroup analysis with respect to type of chemotherapy menopausal status stratified by age nodal status stratified by age use of tamoxifen in both treatment group tumour size in all woman and just in woman with node-negative disease tumour differentiation in all woman and just in woman with node-negative disease and progesterone receptor status .
 none of this factor significantly modify the proportional risk reduction produce by chemotherapy .
 although the anthracycline-based fac or fec regimen appear somewhat much promising than old regimen such as cmf much reliable evidence for this conclusion come from the much large number in the directly randomised comparison of such regimen versus webfigure 8 also show that of the recurrence be specify to be local or contralateral and some of the unspecified one also have be local or contralateral that the proportional reduction in local and in distant recurrence be similar and that the main effect on recurrence be in just the first few year after randomisation as already see in figure .
 webfigure 9 give the result separately for each of the 46 trial of chemotherapy versus not and webfigure give the result separately for each of the trial of tamoxifen versus not .
 for completeness webfigure 11 give the result separately for each of the four trial of a single course of peri-operative polychemotherapy versus no adjuvant chemotherapy .
 discussion .
 a large amount of datum from previous trial be now available and the present result show that long-term follow-up of such trial can continue to yield useful result .
 the effect of adjuvant polychemotherapy on recurrence and mortality be substantial and statistically definite both for woman with er-poor disease age little than and for those age 69 year figure 6 .
 how should this finding inform the current and future care of such woman the chemotherapy be probably not give as intensively as it would be now particularly in old woman and none of the patient in the present analysis receive new drug such as taxane .
 hence current and future adjuvant regimen well produce substantially greater proportional risk reduction in recurrence and breast cancer mortality than the regimen test in this trial .
 although tamoxifen would not now be use in er-negative disease it be give to many of the woman in this trial .
 to estimate the absolute effect of chemotherapy on recurrence and mortality that would have be see in this trial if no tamoxifen have be use two approach be possible .
 one be chiefly to emphasise just the upper part a of figure 1 figure 4 and figure 5 on the ground that this be the only chemotherapy comparison in which tamoxifen be not give .
 the other be chiefly to emphasise the overall result in the low part of this figure on the ground that as tamoxifen i of little relevance to the effect of chemotherapy in er-poor disease this be the totality of the randomised evidence compare chemotherapy versus no chemotherapy .
 the first approach have the advantage of simplicity but it also have the disadvantage of small number of woman and hence larger random error particularly if the age range 59 year 943 woman and 69 year only 539 woman be consider in isolation from each other .
 in the age range of little than and 59 year the relative risk and the year gain be similar in the upper part a and low part of figure 1 figure 4 and figure 5 so both approach would yield similar estimate of benefit although the finding at age young than and 59 year be much highly significant with the large number in the low part .
 in the age range 69 year there be independent evidence that tamoxifen do not directly or indirectly eg by modify compliance reduce the efficacy of chemotherapy in this age range figure 3 c .
 therefore it might be much appropriate to emphasise all the randomised evidence part woman rather than just a fraction of it part a 539 woman .
 in the overall result the mortality reduction be highly significant when the age range 59 and 69 year re combine as in figure this together with the significant recurrence reduction in both age range see figure 4 indicate that there be an appreciable mortality reduction not only at age 59 but also at age 69 year even though the reduction at this late age might be somewhat small .
 at present there be very little direct information on the benefit or hazard of chemotherapy in woman over the age of year as few old woman be randomised in this trial .
 at least a quarter of the recurrence be isolate local or contralateral recurrence and the year reduction in mortality be only about two-thirds as great as the year reduction in recurrence figure 6 .
 in both of the age range in figure 6 and 69 year the absolute reduction in the year risk of death from any cause be about as great as the reduction in breast cancer mortality in line with other evidence that this chemotherapy regimen have on average little adverse effect on mortality from other cause during the first year after .
 in consider the general implication of this trial result it be appropriate to consider mortality from breast cancer and mortality from other cause separately .
 for breast cancer the proportional risk reduction might well be much stable than the absolute risk reduction as be the case with nodal status webfigure 7 .
 they be therefore much likely to be widely generalisable .
 approximate proportional risk reduction can be obtain from the ratio treatment versus control of the year breast cancer mortality risk in figure mortality from cause other than breast cancer will depend mainly on age on various other epidemiological risk factor and on whether some life-threatening disease other than breast cancer be already present .
 for woman little than year of age at diagnosis the ratio of this year breast cancer mortality risk be v whereas for woman 69 year of age it be v figure 6 .
 this ratio suggest that in the absence of other cause of death a year breast cancer mortality of might be reduce to about age or age 69 and that a year risk of might be reduce to about age or age 69 year .
 this risk reduction be approximately as indicate for regimen such as fac or fec by the previous ebctcg if however the good of the drug combination test in this trial be to be give optimally then appreciably well result might be achieve .
 overall tamoxifen appear to be slightly protective in woman who be classify as have er-poor disease event rate ratio for each endpoint se in webfigure .
 however this well be because some of the woman who be classify as have er-poor disease in the early trial do in fact have some er expression and hence some er-mediated treatment effect .
 this apparent protective effect be somewhat strong in the trial of up to 2 year of tamoxifen which typically begin around whilst in the trial of 3 or much mean 5 year of tamoxifen versus not which typically begin much recently and involve about woman who be classify as have er-poor disease there be no apparent protective effect webfigure suggest that even 5 year of tamoxifen have little or no effect on disease that really be er-absent .
 current and future chemotherapy regimen be substantially much effective than the regimen in this trial and therefore yield substantially well proportional risk reduction future ebctcg report will address this directly .
 if in some category of patient with er-absent disease as for example those with small well-differentiated node-negative tumour the absolute risk be low even without adjuvant chemotherapy then the absolute benefit from a give proportional risk reduction will also be low .
 if however the risk of recurrence in any category of untreated er-absent disease be substantial then even this old regimen produce an appreciable absolute reduction in it as indicate by figure .
 contributors .
 the write committee for this paper be in alphabetical order m clarke as coates sc darby c davies rd gelber j godwin a goldhirsch r gray r peto ki pritchard wc wood .
 they accept full responsibility for the overall content of this report .
 attendees at steering committee meeting .
 k albain s anderson r arriagada w barlow j bergh j bliss m buyse d cameron m clarke a coates r collins j costantino j cuzick s darby n davidson c davies a di leo m dowsett m ewertz kvistgaard r gelber c geyer a goldhirsch r gray d hayes c hill j ingle r jakesz m kaufmann p mcgale l norton y ohashi s paik e perez r peto m piccart co-chair g pruneri k pritchard co-chair v raina p ravdin j robertson e rutgers yf shao s swain c taylor p valagussa g viale t whelan e winer y wang w wood .
 executive group .
 secretariat .
 ebctcg collaborator list alphabetically by institution and then alphabetically by name .
 acetbc tokyo japano abe r abe k enomoto k kikuchi h koyama h masuda y nomura y ohashi k sakai k sugimachi t tominaga j uchino m yoshida .
 addenbrooke 's hospital cambridge ukj l haybittle .
 atlas trial collaborative study group oxford ukv collett c davies j sayer .
 auckland breast cancer study group new zealandv j harvey tm holdaway r g kay b h mason .
 australian-new zealand breast cancer trial group sydney australiaj f forbes n wilcken .
 austrian breast cancer study group vienna austriap dubsky h fohler m fidrik m gnant r greil r jakesz w krasny e kubista a lang c marth c menzel m mittlboeck b mlineritsch s poestlberger r poetter e ruecklinger h samonigg w schippinger g steger m stierer s taucher j thaler j tschmelitsch w wohlmuth .
 beatson oncology centre glasgow ukp canney h m a yosef .
 belgian adjuvant breast cancer project liege belgiumc focan .
 berlin-buch akademie der wissenschaften germanyu peek .
 birmingham general hospital ukg d oates j powell .
 bordeaux institut bergonie francem durand l mauriac .
 bordet institute brussels belgiuma di leo s dolci m j piccart .
 bradford royal infirmary ukm b masood d parker j j price .
 breast cancer study group of the comprehensive cancer centre limburg netherlandsp s g j hupperets .
 british columbia cancer agency vancouver canadas jackson j ragaz .
 cancer and leukemia group b washington dc usad berry g broadwater c cirrincione h muss l norton r b weiss .
 cancer care ontario canadah t abu-zahra .
 cancer research centre of the russian academy of medical science moscow russias m portnoj .
 cancer research uk london ukm baum j cuzick m dowsett j houghton d riley .
 cardiff trialists group ukr e mansel .
 case western reserve university cleveland oh usan h gordon .
 central oncology group milwaukee wi usah l davis .
 centre claudius regaud toulouse francea beatrice j mihura a naja .
 centre lon-brard lyon francey lehingue p romestaing .
 centre paul lamarque montpellier francej b dubois .
 centre regional franois baclesse caen francet delozier j mace lesec'h .
 centre ren huguenin paris st cloud francep rambert .
 charles university prague czech republicl petruzelka o pribylova .
 cheltenham general hospital ukj r owen .
 chemo trial group germanyn harbeck f jnicke c meisner .
 chicago university il usap meier .
 christie hospital and holt radium institute manchester uka howell r swindell .
 clinical trial service unit oxford uk ie ebctcg secretariat m clarke r collins s darby c davies p elphinstone v evans j godwin r gray c harwood c hicks s james e mackinnon p mcgale t mchugh r peto j sayer c taylor y wang .
 coimbra instituto de oncologia portugalj albano c f de oliveira h gervsio j gordilho .
 copenhagen radium centre denmarkh johansen h t mouridsen .
 dana-farber cancer institute boston ma usad hayes r s gelman j r harris i c henderson c l shapiro e winer .
 danish breast cancer cooperative group copenhagen denmarkp christiansen b ejlertsen m ewertz kvistgaard h t mouridsen s mller m overgaard .
 danish cancer registry copenhagen denmarkb carstensen t palshof .
 dsseldorf university germanyh j trampisch .
 dutch working party for autologous bone marrow transplant in solid tumour groningen netherlandso dalesio e g e de vries s rodenhuis h van tinteren .
 eastern cooperative oncology group boston ma usar l comis n e davidson r gray n robert g sledge d c tormey w wood .
 edinburgh breast unit ukd cameron u chetty p forrest w jack .
 elim hospital hamburg germanyj rossbach .
 erasmus mc daniel den hoed cancer center rotterdam netherlandsj g m klijn a d treurniet-donker w l j van putten .
 european institute of oncology milan italya costa u veronesi g viale .
 european organization for research and treatment of cancer brussels belgiumh bartelink c legrand e rutgers r sylvester c j h van de velde j g h van nes .
 evanston hospital il usam p cunningham .
 fox chase cancer centre philadelphia pa usal j goldstein .
 french adjuvant study group gfea guyancourt francej bonneterre p fargeot p fumoleau p kerbrat m namer .
 german adjuvant breast group gabg frankfurt germanyw jonat m kaufmann m schumacher g von minckwitz .
 german breast cancer study group bmft freiburg germanyg bastert h rauschecker r sauer w sauerbrei a schauer m schumacher .
 ghent university hospital belgiuma de schryver l vakaet .
 givio interdisciplinary group for cancer care evaluation chieti italym belfiglio a nicolucci f pellegrini m sacco m valentini .
 glasgow victoria infirmary ukc s mcardle d c smith s stallard .
 gruppo oncologico clinico cooperativo del nord est aviano italye galligioni .
 gruppo ricerca ormono chemio terapia adiuvante grocta genova italyf boccardo a rubagotti .
 groote schuur hospital cape town south africad m dent c a gudgeon a hacking e murray e panieri .
 guadalajara hospital de noviembre mexicoa erazo j y medina .
 gunma university japanm izuo y morishita h takei .
 guy 's hospital london uki s fentiman j l hayward r d rubens d skilton .
 heidelberg university i germanyh scheurlen .
 heidelberg university ii germanym kaufmann h c sohn .
 hellenic cooperative oncology group athens greeceu dafni g fountzilas .
 helsinki deaconess medical centre finlandp klefstrom .
 helsinki university finlandc blomqvist t saarto .
 innsbruck university austriar margreiter .
 institut curie paris franceb asselain r j salmon j r vilcoq .
 institut gustave-roussy paris francer arriagada c hill a laplanche m g l m spielmann .
 integraal kankercentrum amsterdam netherlandsj benraadt m kooi a o van de velde j a van dongen j b vermorken .
 international breast cancer study group ludwig bern switzerlandm castiglione f cavalli a coates j collins j forbes r d gelber a goldhirsch j lindtner k n price v raina c m rudenstam h j senn .
 international collaborative cancer group charing cross hospital london ukj m bliss c e d chilvers r c coombes e hall m marty .
 international drug development institute louvain-la-neuve belgiumm buyse .
 israel nsabc tel aviv israelr borovik g brufman h hayat e robinson n yaal-hahoshen .
 istituto nazionale per la ricerca sul cancro genova italyp bruzzi e montanaro r rosso m r sertoli m venturini .
 istituto nazionale per lo studio e la cura dei tumori milan italyg bonadonna t camerini g de palo mg di mauro f formelli p valagussa .
 istituto oncologico romagnolo forli italyd amadori .
 italian cooperative chemo-radio-surgical group bologna italya martoni f pannuti .
 italian oncology group for clinical research parma italyr camisa g cocconi a colozza s gori .
 japan clinical oncology group breast cancer study group matsuyama japank aogi s takashima .
 japanese foundation for multidisciplinary treatment of cancer tokyo japano abe t ikeda k inokuchi k kikuchi k sawa .
 kawasaki medical school japanh sonoo .
 krakow institute of oncology polands korzeniowski j skolyszewski .
 kumamoto university group japanm ogawa j yamashita .
 leuven akademisch ziekenhuis gasthuisberg belgiumr christiaens p neven r paridaens w van den bogaert .
 marseille laboratoire de cancrologie biologique apm francep martin s romain .
 memorial sloan-kettering cancer center new york ny usat hakes c a hudis l norton r wittes .
 metaxas memorial cancer hospital athens greeceg giokas d kondylis b lissaios .
 mexican national medical centre mexico city mexicor de la huerta m g sainz .
 national cancer institute bethesda md usar altemus k camphausen k cowan d danforth a lichter m lippman j o'shaughnessy l j pierce s steinberg d venzon j a zujewski .
 national cancer institute bari italya paradiso m de lena f schittulli .
 national cancer institute of canada clinical trial group kingston ontario canadaj w chapman p e goss m n levine j d myles j l pater k i pritchard l e shepherd d tu t whelan b zee .
 national kyushu cancer center japany nomura .
 national surgical adjuvant breast and bowel project nsabp pittsburgh pa usas anderson g bass a brown j bryant deceased j costantino j dignam b fisher c geyer s paik c redmond s wieand n wolmark .
 nolvadex adjuvant trial organisation london ukm baum i m jackson deceased m k palmer .
 north central cancer treatment group mayo clinic rochester mn usae perez j n ingle v j suman .
 north sweden breast cancer group umea swedenn o bengtsson h jonsson l g larsson .
 north-western british surgeon manchester ukj p lythgoe r swindell .
 northwick park hospital london ukm kissin .
 norwegian breast cancer group oslo norwayb erikstein e hannisdal a b jacobsen j e varhaug .
 norwegian radium hospital oslo norwayb erikstein s gundersen m hauer-jensen h hst a b jacobsen r nissen-meyer .
 nottingham city hospital ukr w blamey a k mitchell d a l morgan j f r robertson .
 oncofrance paris francem di palma g math j l misset .
 ontario clinical oncology group hamilton canadar m clark m levine k i pritchard t whelan .
 osaka city university japank morimoto .
 osaka national hospital japank sawa y takatsuka .
 churchill hospital oxford uke crossley a harris d talbot m taylor .
 parma hospital italyg cocconi b di blasio .
 petrov research institute of oncology st petersburg russiav ivanov v semiglazov .
 piedmont oncology association winston-salem nc usaj brockschmidt m r cooper .
 prefectural hospital oita japanh ueo .
 pretoria university south africac i falkson .
 royal marsden hospital institute of cancer research london ukr a'hern s ashley t j powles i e smith j r yarnold .
 st george 's hospital london ukj c gazet .
 st luke 's hospital dublin irelandn corcoran .
 sardinia oncology hospital a businico cagliari sardinian deshpande l di martino .
 sasib international trialists cape town south africap douglas a hacking h hst a lindtner g notter .
 saskatchewan cancer foundation regina canadaa j s bryant g h ewing l a firth j l krushen-kosloski .
 scandinavian adjuvant chemotherapy study group oslo norwayr nissen-meyer .
 scottish cancer therapy network edinburgh ukl foster w d george h j stewart p stroner .
 south sweden breast cancer group lund swedenp malmstrm t r mller s rydn i tengrup l tennvall-nittby .
 south-east sweden breast cancer group linkping swedenj carstenssen m dufmats t hatschek b nordenskjld m sderberg .
 south-eastern cancer study group and alabama breast cancer project birmingham al usaj t carpenter .
 south-west oncology group san antonio tx usak albain w barlow j crowley s green s martino c k osborne p m ravdin .
 southampton oncology centre ukn murray g t royle .
 stockholm breast cancer study group swedenu glas u johansson l e rutqvist t singnomklao a wallgren .
 swiss group for clinical cancer research sakk bern and osako st gallen switzerlandm castiglione a goldhirsch r maibach h j senn b thrlimann .
 tel aviv university israelh brenner a hercbergs .
 tokyo cancer institute hospital japanm yoshimoto .
 toronto-edmonton breast cancer study group canadag deboer a h g paterson k i pritchard .
 toronto princess margaret hospital canadaj w meakin t panzarella k i pritchard .
 tumour hospital chinese academy of medical science beijing people 's republic of china in collaboration with the oxford ctsu y shan y f shao x wang d b zhao ctsu zm chen hc pan .
 tunis institut salah azaiz tunisiaj bahi .
 uk multicentre cancer chemotherapy study group london ukm reid m spittle .
 uk asia collaborative breast cancer group london ukg p deutsch f senanayake d l w kwong .
 university federico ii naples italya r bianco c carlomagno m de laurentiis s de placido .
 university of texas md anderson cancer center houston tx usak broglio a u buzdar .
 uppsala-rebro breast cancer study group swedenj bergh l holmberg g liljegren j nilsson .
 vienna university hospital 1st department of gynaecology austriam janauer m seifert p sevelda c c zielinski .
 west midlands oncology association birmingham ukj a dunn r k hill m lee j m morrison c poole d rea d spooner .
 west of scotland breast trial group glasgow uka litton .
 western cancer study group torrance usar t chlebowski .
 wrzburg university germanyh caffier .
 conflict of interest statement .
 the write committee and secretariat declare that they have no conflict of interest .
 acknowledgment .
 the main acknowledgment be to the ten of thousand of woman who take part in the trial review here .
 funding for the ebctcg secretariat be through the direct support from the uk medical research council and cancer research uk to the clinical trial service unit and epidemiological study unit ctsu university of oxford .
 however up to of woman who receive preoperative cytotoxic therapy do not respond to the treatment ellis et 1998a and ellis et 1998b .
 then we need to identify those patient that will not respond to certain chemotherapy to offer them other treatment strategy .
 in spite of the different mechanism of action much cytotoxic drug use in the clinic induce apoptosis and among the molecular mechanism involve in chemoresistance be the alteration in critical pathway of the apoptosis cascade initiate by the cytotoxic drug .
 there be two principal pathway lead to apoptosis one begin in the plasma membrane with the presence of cell-surface death receptor and the other begin in the mitochondria .
 the mitochondrial pathway be regulate by member of the bcl-2 protein family some of them function as promoter bax and other as inhibitor bcl-2 .
 the member of the bcl-2 protein family interact form homo- and heterodimer the ratio of protein rather than either alone for example instead of bcl-2 alone dictate the ultimate sensitivity or resistance of tumor cell to apoptosis .
 the bcl-2 gene encode two bcl-2 protein isoform and be the commonly detect isoform with a molecular weight of 26 kda whereas protein with a molecular weight of 21 kda be rarely detect .
 bcl-2 protein be localized in the inner surface of the plasma membrane the outer and inner mitochondrial membrane the endoplasmic reticulum and the nuclear membrane .
 in breast cancer the expression of bcl-2 have be associate with the presence of marker of differentiation and with a long survival in node-negative or node-positive patient daidone et 1999a and daidone et 1999b .
 since bcl-2 have a positive correlation with estrogen receptor alpha er status it raise the possibility that bcl-2 be an er-regulated gene .
 in fact it have be find that bcl-2 expression be a marker of tamoxifen sensitivity in breast cancer patient elledge et 1997 and ciocca and elledge .
 it have be widely demonstrate that bcl-2 can prevent the apoptosis induce by chemotherapeutic drug include doxorubicin in cancer cell line .
 however in breast cancer patient the role of bcl-2 as a predictive marker of resistance sensitivity to chemotherapy be still controversial and there be no report evaluate bcl-2 as prognostic marker in neoadjuvant therapy .
 a prognostic factor be a measurement that be associate with clinical outcome in the absence of therapy or with the application of a standard therapy that all patient be likely to receive .
 a predictive factor be a measurement that be associate with benefit or lack of benefit from a particular therapy .
 in some study with adjuvant therapy high bcl-2 expression have be find to be relate to a good response to chemotherapy whereas other author have find a bcl-2 association with resistance to chemotherapy .
 in study with neoadjuvant chemotherapy some author do not find any correlation of bcl-2 with the response to the treatment daidone et 1999a daidone et 1999b and bottini et while other observe that the absence of bcl-2 in the tumor before chemotherapy correlated with a well pathological response .
 bax bcl-2-associated protein x be the archetypal proapoptotic protein of the bcl-2 family .
 bax gene can produce different protein through mrna alternative splice mechanism include and isoform .
 bax be the commonly detect isoform with a molecular weight of 21 kda it move from cytoplasm to mitochondria follow an apoptotic stimulus and form heterodimeric complex with bcl-2 .
 in metastatic breast cancer patient reduce bax expression have be associate with short survival .
 the tumor suppressor gene p53 be involve in the regulation of apoptosis .
 the wild-type wt p53 be a check-point protein that induce cell cycle arrest and apoptosis .
 wt p53 transcriptionally down-regulate the expression of the bcl-2 gene and activate the expression of the bax gene .
 in human breast carcinoma an inverse correlation between p53 immunostaining a surrogate end-marker of mutant p53 protein as describe elsewhere and bcl-2 expression have be report silvestrini et 1994 and krajewski et 1997 .
 in order to advance knowledge on the usefulness of evaluate the expression level of bcl-2 in breast cancer patient we conduct this study to correlate the expression of this protein with clinical and pathological response to chemotherapy and with the survival of the patient .
 .
 effect of neoadjuvant chemotherapy on bcl-2 expression .
 this part of the study that be not principal goal be perform in match sample from fac fec group 5 fluorouracil adriamycin or epirubicin and cyclophosphamide and match sample from d e group doxorubicin or epirubicin in the other sample we do not have enough pre-chemotherapy material because the biopsy be obtain by fine-needle n 18 or the core biopsy n 32 be destine to other analysis .
 bcl-2 staining be confine to the cytoplasm of tumor cell .
 in all section of tumor sample we observe area with infiltrate lymphocyte which we use as an internal positive control because this cell express bcl-2 in cytoplasm .
 in the fac fec group bcl-2 be markedly positive of stain cell in 8 of the tumor remove before chemotherapy after chemotherapy the protein remain unchanged in case decrease in 5 case increase in 3 case and it be negative in 2 case .
 a high apoptotic index ai be much frequently find among the case with low bcl-2 expression compare to the case with high bcl-2 content but this inverse correlation be not statistically significant .
 the mean ai evaluate with hematoxylin and eosin he be range and range before and after chemotherapy respectively .
 similar mean value be obtain with the tunel range and range in pre and post-chemotherapy biopsy respectively .
 four patient show a increase in the ai evaluate by he follow chemotherapy whereas in 4 case the ai value decrease and there be no change in 13 case .
 eight patient show a increase in the ai evaluate by tunel follow chemotherapy whereas in 4 case the value decrease and the value remain unchanged in 6 case .
 we find a trend for a correlation between ai-he and ai-tunel in post-chemotherapy sample spearman 's rank correlation coefficient r p .
 full-size image 112k figure a bcl-2 immunoreactivity in the cytoplasm of tumor cell .
 b negative bcl-2 expression in tumor cell and bcl-2 expression in the cytoplasm of some infiltrate lymphocyte .
 c bax immunoreactivity in the cytoplasm of tumor cell .
 d bax immunoreactivity in the nucleus of tumor cell .
 the immunostaining be repeat three time obtain the same result .
 scale bar a c and d 11 m b m .
 view within article .
 in d e group bcl-2 be markedly positive of stain cell in 8 of the tumor remove before chemotherapy after chemotherapy the protein remain unchanged in 6 case decrease in 2 case and it be induce in 6 of the match sample .
 in order to know if the antibody against bcl-2 might also reveal the presence of bcl-2 fragment generate during apoptosis which be pro-apoptotic molecule we decide to perform a western blot study .
 we corroborate the specific reaction against bcl-2 the only band be that of 26 kda and when the time of exposition with the chemiluminescence reagent be increase from 2 s to 2 min and to min two other greater molecular weight band but no small band be observe .
 full-size image 13k figure western blot analysis to test the specificity of the anti-bcl-2 antibody use in study .
 the time of exposition with the chemiluminescence reagent be increase from 2 sec lane a to 2 min lane b and to min lane c .
 note the specific reaction against bcl-2 the only band be that of 26 kda and the presence of two other greater molecular weight band but no small band in lane b and c .
 the molecular weight be calculate use a rainbow coloured protein molecular weight marker kit amersham life science england .
 view within article .
 we study bax expression in 17 match sample from fac fec group the protein be present in the cytoplasm of 14 17 of the tumor remove before chemotherapy the protein remain unchanged after treatment in 6 case whereas it decrease in 4 case and it increase in 3 case .
 in one case bax expression disappear after chemotherapy .
 it be important to mention that in of case 16 bax be present in the nucleus of tumor cell before and or after chemotherapy .
 the intensity of nuclear bax expression be weak or moderate and do not change significantly after drug administration .
 since wt p53 tend to activate bax we explore the correlation between bax and p53 expression .
 we observe that mutate p53 correlated with low bax content in the pre-chemotherapy biopsy only spearman 's rank correlation coefficient r p .
 relationship between bcl-2 and tumor .
 clinical response of the tumor .
 patient treat with fac fec present at the end of the neoadjuvant chemotherapy a clinical response of the tumor that be evaluate as partial response pr in 21 patient while the other 19 patient present stable disease sd .
 the expression of bcl-2 bax and p53 evaluate before chemotherapy do not correlate with the clinical response of the tumor .
 table .
 correlation of molecular marker before chemotherapy with clinical response .
 fac ep value responders pra non-responders sdb responders pr crc non-responders sdb nn bax p53 er 3 7 f66nenens 2 f36 pgr 3 7 f23nenens 2 f79 .
 full-size table .
 a pr partial response .
 b sd stable disease .
 c cr complete response .
 d ns not significant .
 e ne not evaluate .
 f total score .
 view within article .
 in the d e group 21 patient attain pr while 47 patient present sd .
 only 2 patient from the d e group show complete response cr .
 the expression of bcl-2 evaluate before chemotherapy do not correlate with the clinical response of the tumor .
 in study the statistical analysis show that the clinical response of the tumor do not correlate with the survival of the patient fisher exact test p no significant .
 pathological response .
 in the fac fec group all specimen have macroscopic residual disease mar .
 in the d e group bcl-2 be absent in of specimen with pathological complete response 4 5 and of specimen with mar 24 32 .
 relationship between bcl-2 expression and clinical outcome .
 in the fac fec group none of the marker study in the biopsy before chemotherapy n 23 correlated with disease free survival dfs or overall survival os .
 however in the post-neoadjuvant biopsy n bcl-2 expression be significantly associate with long dfs and os p and p respectively .
 a ratio in favor of bcl-2 be associate with long dfs but not with os p and p respectively .
 er expression after chemotherapy show a tendency to correlate with long dfs p but not with os p .
 neither ai nor p53 expression in the surgical specimen correlated with the survival of the patient .
 full-size image 42k figure disease free survival dfs and overall survival os curve accord to bcl-2 and er expression in post-chemotherapy biopsy from fac fec group n .
 analyses of dfs and os be perform by the kaplan meier method .
 the difference between curve be evaluate with the log-rank test for censor survival or event observation .
 view within article .
 in d e group bcl-2 expression in the biopsy before chemotherapy n 41 do not correlate with dfs or os .
 in the post-neoadjuvant biopsy n 66 bcl-2 expression be significantly associate with long dfs p and show a tendency to correlate with long os p .
 er expression after chemotherapy be associate with long dfs p and os p .
 full-size image 42k figure disease free survival dfs and overall survival os curve accord to bcl-2 and er expression in post-chemotherapy biopsy from d e group n 66 .
 analyses of dfs and os be perform by the kaplan meier method .
 the difference between curve be evaluate with the log-rank test for censor survival or event observation .
 view within article .
 it be interesting to note that patient from d e group have well dfs and os than patient from fac fec group cox model p and p respectively .
 however the interaction between the two treatment regimen and bcl-2 status be not statistically significant then bcl-2 do not have predictive significance in study .
 discussion .
 previous researcher have explore the value of bcl-2 protein as predictive or prognostic factor to adjuvant treatment in breast cancer gasparini et 1995 bonetti et 1998 sjstrm et and lee et .
 however there be few analysis in a homogeneous group of patient treat with neoadjuvant chemotherapy .
 in study we do not find statistically significant change in the ai and in the expression of bcl-2 bax and p53 after chemotherapy when the complete fac fec group be analyzed difference in individual patient be note .
 in a group of the surgical specimen follow chemotherapy ellis et have report that the ai be reduce and the bcl-2 expression show a significant increase ellis et 1998a and ellis et 1998b .
 the discrepancy with result may be explain by the fact that the combination of cytotoxic drug cisplatin epirubicin and 5 fluorouracil dose and schedule of administration to the patient be different .
 parton et have report that the ai and bax rise 24 h follow chemoendocrine therapy but they do not study what happen in the surgical specimen .
 it be interesting to note that we observe nuclear expression of bax in some of the breast cancer sample this unusual localization have previously be observe in cultured cell include human breast cancer cell nishita et 1998 wang et 1999 and hoetelmans et .
 it have be show that in some circumstance bax translocates into the nucleus after hyperthermia and it may be involve in the transmigration of other protein .
 in study nuclear expression of bax do not correlate with the clinical response of the tumor or with the outcome of the patient .
 further study will be necessary to elucidate the role of bax in the nuclear compartment of breast tumor cell before and after drug administration .
 we do not find any correlation between bcl-2 expression and the clinical and pathological response which be consistent with previous report .
 it be important to mention that pusztai et find that the absence of bcl-2 expression in pre-chemotherapy specimen be associate with much frequent complete pathological response .
 despite this consideration we should remember here that in study the clinical response of the tumor be not a good parameter to predict the survival of the patient .
 in the present study high bcl-2 expression at time of surgery correlated with well dfs and os in fac fec and d e group .
 it be not clear why bcl-2 represent a molecular marker for well prognosis in breast cancer patient treat with neoadjuvant chemotherapy .
 at this point some consideration should be take into account 1 the determination of bcl-2 status alone be not sufficient for assess the competency of this protein in the apoptosis pathway because it form heterodimer with other bcl-2 family member .
 we study the ratio in the fac fec group and we observe that a ratio 1 also correlated with well dfs .
 therefore we believe that it would be necessary to determine the expression of all the other member of bcl-2 family that interact with bcl-2 to know the real implication of this protein in the apoptotic pathway induce by chemotherapy .
 2 after the induction of apoptosis the activate caspase cleave bcl-2 at asp34 and transform the bcl-2 protein to an inducer of cell death .
 we perform a western blot to know if in biopsy we be recognize the whole bcl-2 molecule and the proapoptotic fragment we corroborate that the antibody use recognize only the whole molecule .
 3 the level of expression of bcl-2 be crucial to determine role on apoptosis as describe by .
 this author perform cell transfection study show that a high expression of bcl-2 be proapoptotic while a relatively low bcl-2 expression be antiapoptotic discuss the molecular mechanism for this paradoxical effect .
 if this be true then the tumor cell with high bcl-2 expression that escape the primary tumor may be much sensitive to chemotherapy explain the well dfs os .
 however we should remember that the remain cell in the tumor after neoadjuvant chemotherapy be mainly those that become resistant to the drug alternatively it be also possible that this cell be not reach by the drug and that if this cell be not completely remove by surgery chemotherapy and radiation therapy they will be the responsible of treatment failure at local level local recurrence and perhaps they will be the source for metastasis .
 we have examine the primary tumor but we do not know what be happen with the cell that already escape from the primary tumor .
 we hypothesize that the breast tumor cell overexpressing bcl-2 become much resistant to chemotherapy at least this be what we see in the surgical specimen obtain after induction chemotherapy but they have a little aggressive behavior they be little able to produce metastasis and for this reason primary tumor contain bcl-2 overexpression be relate to a well survival .
 this explanation be consistent with the result obtain by neri et which may indicate that the expression of bcl-2 be a marker of breast cancer with reduce capability of distant colonization even in presence of lymphovascular invasion .
 in other word we be support the conclusion of bonetti et that bcl-2 positive tumor have low response to chemotherapy but well survival .
 one explanation may be the anti-proliferative activity of bcl-2 .
 deng et have show that bcl-2 may negatively regulate g1 s transition by a mechanism involve the increase expression of antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase and catalase which in turn reduce intracellular reactive oxigen species level and this be dependent of phosphorylation status of bcl-2 .
 then we examine the cell proliferation in bcl-2 positive tumor to know whether a tumor overexpressing bcl-2 protein have low proliferation .
 we compare pcna proliferating cell nuclear antigen expression with bcl-2 expression but we do not observe any significant correlation datum not show .
 4 finally the well survival of patient with positive bcl-2 tumor may be explain by the correlation with er content in d e group all of the patient tumor have er receive hormone therapy after chemotherapy .
 this explanation be not sufficient to explain the good survival of patient with bcl-2 positive tumor in fac fec because er status do not correlate with bcl-2 expression and er be only marginally useful to predict disease-free interval and it be not useful to predict overall survival .
 we find that a high bcl-2 expression have no predictive value but have a prognostic value in breast cancer patient treat with doxorubicin epirubicin neoadjuvant chemotherapy .
 further study will be necessary to elucidate why bcl-2 protein be an important prognostic marker in breast cancer patient .
 experimental .
 patient .
 one hundred and ten patient bear t2 primary breast cancer stage ii or iii be enrolled into the study .
 patient be require to have histological proof of invasive carcinoma to be at least 18 year of age have a performance status of by the karnofsky scale have a serum billirubin level mg dl serum creatinine level mg dl and have a normal cardiac function .
 the patient be assess to be metastasis free at the time of diagnosis by careful clinical evaluation by x-ray of the chest bone scintigraphy and liver ultrasound .
 none of the patient have previously receive any treatment for the disease .
 the main clinical and pathological characteristic of the patient be show in table this research protocol be approve by the ethic committee of the lagomaggiore hospital of mendoza .
 written inform consent be obtain from each subject .
 initial diagnosis be make by fine-needle aspiration 18 case core biopsy case or incision biopsy 22 case .
 table .
 main clinical and pathological characteristic of the patient study .
 characteristicfac fec numberd number age year 7129 71 mean4852 clinical stage at presentation ii12 iii28 tumor size 2 cm 5 19 5 51 histological type infiltrating ductal35 61 infiltrating lobular4 3 infiltrating medullary1 1 mucinous 1 canalicular 1 sarcoma 1 poor differentiate 2 clinical responsea sd19 47 pr21 21 pathological responseb cr 5 mir 9 56 full-size table .
 a sd stable disease pr partial response cr complete response .
 b cr complete response mir microscopic residual disease mar macroscopic residual disease .
 view within article .
 neoadjuvant chemotherapy .
 the first consecutive patient receive anthracycline-based combination therapy fac or fec 5 fluorouracil mg m2 adriamycin or epirubicin mg m2 cyclophosphamide mg m2 during 3 or 4 cycle before surgery in 6 case to maximally reduce the tumor bulk the patient receive much cycle and in 2 other case only 2 cycle be administer because of high toxicity .
 initial diagnosis be make by fine-needle aspiration 18 case or incision biopsy 22 case .
 after surgery patient receive 3 or 4 additional cycle of fac fec .
 the next patient receive monochemotherapy consist of doxorubicin d 75 mg m2 or epirubicin e mg m2 for 4 cycle before surgery .
 initial diagnosis be make by core biopsy .
 after surgery this patient receive 6 cycle of cyclophosphamide methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil cmf .
 surgical excision of the tumor be perform in all patient even if they present clinical complete response in this case the area of the tumor be excise .
 adjuvant hormonotherapy be administer to the patient after chemotherapy accord to the medical doctor judgment evaluate er and progesterone receptor .
 the clinical response be assess by measurement of the change in the product of the two large diameter record at baseline and at the end of chemotherapy before surgery .
 tumor progression tp be define as an increase of at least of tumor size stable disease sd as a tumor size increase little than or reduction little than or equal to partial response pr as tumor shrinkage great than and complete response cr as a total disappearance of all clinical sign of the disease .
 lumpectomy or mastectomy be perform approximately 3 week after the last cycle of neoadjuvant chemotherapy post-operatively the patient resume chemotherapy 3 4 or 6 much cycle .
 consolidative radiation therapy be apply in some case gy to the chest wall and gy to the lymph node .
 table 2 show the main characteristic of the patient study .
 the specimen from surgery be carefully evaluate for the presence of residual disease by the pathologist .
 pathological complete response pcr be define as the absence of invasive carcinoma in the breast microscopic residual disease mir be define as 1 mm of invasive carcinoma and macroscopic residual disease mar be define as 1 mm or multiple focus of invasive carcinoma throughout the specimen .
 follow-up .
 the follow-up be periodically perform clinically and by the diagnostic tool mention above x-ray .
 the median time of follow-up define as time to death or to the last follow-up visit be 45 month 8 month for fac fec group and 41 month 6 month for d e group .
 dfs be calculate as the period from diagnosis until the date of the first distant recurrence or the last follow-up .
 os be calculate as the period from diagnosis until the date of death .
 histopathology .
 pre- and post-chemotherapy sample be immediately fix in buffer formalin and embed in paraffin .
 serial 5 m-thick section be mount onto 3 aminopropyltrietoxysilane sigma louis mo -coated slide for subsequent analysis .
 apoptotic figure be identify in the histological section stain with hematoxylin and eosin he use establish morphological criterion .
 part of some tumor sample be store at c until western blot analysis be perform .
 apoptosis assay tunel apoptosis detection be perform by an improve tunel technique .
 briefly tissue section be pretreated with proteinase k promega madison wi g ml in phosphate buffer saline ph for 15 min at room temperature follow by microwave irradiation in m citrate buffer ph endogenous peroxidase be block incubate the section in sodium azide riedel-de haen hoechst argentina in automation buffer mm tris hcl mm tris hydroxymethyl -aminomethane and brij 35 v v ph add v v h2o2 for min at room temperature .
 bovine serum albumin in be use to block non-specific staining min at room temperature .
 the apoptag plus peroxidase in situ apoptosis kit intergen ny be use reaction buffer tdt equilibration buffer and the stop-wash buffer .
 section be incubate with biotin-conjugated mouse monoclonal antibody mab against digoxigenin sigma dilute in pbs ph overnight at 4 c in humidify chamber .
 then they be incubate with biotinylated rabbit anti mouse igg dako carpinteria dilute in pbs for 45 min at room temperature .
 finally section be incubate with peroxidase-labeled streptavidin strepabcomplex dako dilute for 45 min at room temperature .
 diaminobenzidine mg ml peroxide be use as chromogen substrate .
 the tissue section be counterstained with methyl green to reveal nucleus and observe with an im35 microscope zeiss oberkochen germany .
 section from the pair biopsy pre- and post-chemotherapy be always process together .
 negative control slide be incubate without tdt but include all other step of the procedure .
 the ai percentage of apoptotic cell be evaluate count at least cell slide a cutoff value of be choose .
 all of the slide be review and score separate by two observer who be blind to the clinical outcome of the patient .
 immunohistochemistry .
 the follow primary antibody be use 1 mouse mab bcl-2 clone 124 against bcl-2 protein dako .
 in the identification sheet dako provide information on the specificity of the antibody state that it label solely a band of 26 kda corresponding to bcl-2 oncoprotein under both non-reducing and reduce condition .
 to be sure we test again the antibody in western blot and only the 26 kda band be label .
 2 mouse mab bax against recombinant human bax protein mbl japan 3 mouse mab do-7 against p53 protein novocastra newcastle upon tyne uk 4 mouse mab 1d5 against estrogen receptor er dako and 5 mouse mab mpri against progesterone receptor pgr transbio paris france .
 the antibody against p53 clone do-7 recognize both wild-type and mutant-type p53 protein .
 the positive nuclear immunostaining be use as a surrogate end-marker of mutant p53 because in tissue lack the mutant p53 there be no detectable signal the wild-type protein have a short half-life and be present at very low level in contrast the mutant p53 accumulate in the nucleus and be detectable by immunohistochemistry .
 the antigen retrieval protocol with microwave oven be use to unmask the bcl-2 bax p53 er and pr antigen min in citrate buffer ph .
 tissue section be incubate with the primary antibody overnight at 4 c in humidity chamber at the follow dilution bcl-2 bax do-7 1d5 mpri .
 we use as second antibody anti-mouse igg whole molecule biotin conjugate dako at dilution 45 min .
 the lab complex dako be apply at dilution .
 diaminobenzidine mg ml peroxide be use as chromogen substrate .
 slide be lightly counterstained with methyl green to reveal nucleus and observe with an im35 microscope zeiss oberkochen germany .
 section from the pair biopsy pre- and post-chemotherapy be always process together .
 negative control slide be process exclude the primary antibody but include all other step of the procedure .
 all of the slide be review and score separate by two observer who be blind to the clinical outcome of the patient discordant case be re-evaluated and resolve by consensus .
 the cutoff use to determine if a marker be positive or negative be choose based upon previous study demonstrate clinical significance .
 the immunoreactive cell for bcl-2 and p53 be dichotomized into two group 33 or while the cutoff of bax be krajewski et 1995 and vargas-roig et 1999 .
 the immunoreactive cell for hormone receptor be dichotomized into two group 3 or 3 of total score intensity and proportion the intensity score use be no staining weak staining 1 moderate staining 2 and strong staining 3 and the proportion score use be 1 1 11 2 31 3 and 4 .
 western blot .
 part of some breast cancer sample be store at c until western blot analysis be perform .
 total protein sample and g be subject to sds-page follow by transfer onto nitrocellulose filter as previously describe .
 the antibody to bcl-2 be dilute at .
 for detection of the immunocomplexes chemiluminescence reagent be use follow the manufacturer 's instruction dupont nen boston ma .
 statistical analysis .
 the wilcoxon sign rank non-parametric test be use to determine whether difference find in the pre- and post-chemotherapy biopsy be significant .
 the strength of association between ai-he and tunel as well as the correlation between the marker study be calculate use the spearman 's rank correlation coefficient .
 fisher 's exact test be use to determine whether the expression of the marker study correlated significantly with the clinical and pathological response and outcome of the patient .
 analyses of dfs and os be perform by the kaplan meier method .
 the difference between curve be evaluate with the log-rank test for censor survival or event observation .
 the predictive significance of bcl-2 be evaluate with logistic regression and cox model contain term for the main effect of treatment and bcl-2 .
 statistical analysis be perform use the prism computer program graph pad software san diego and spss program a p be consider significant .
 acknowledgment .
 we want to thank dr miatello for help and advice in the statistical analysis of the datum and m lazzaro for technical assistance .
 this work be support by grant pip 5149 national research council of argentine conicet and argentine foundation for cancer research .
 low bmd history of fracture and age be three of the strong prognostic factor for subsequent osteoporosis-related a high rate of bone loss occur early in the transition from pre- to postmenopause when as much as 3 of bone be lose each this rate of bone loss then slow to approximately per year when woman enter the postmenopausal .
 in general the increase bone loss observe during and after menopause can be attributed to the natural decrease in estrogen level .
 because estrogen have a negative regulatory effect on bone-resorbing osteoclast a decrease in estrogen level will increase the rate of bone resorption and thereby increase fracture risk .
 this association between estrogen and elevate fracture risk be observe in a large prospective study in postmenopausal woman 65 year of baseline serum estrogen level in woman with hip or vertebral fracture be compare with serum estrogen level in woman with no fracture .
 after adjustment for weight and age woman with undetectable serum estradiol level have an approximate great risk of hip and vertebral fracture than woman with low but detectable therefore it appear that woman with undetectable serum estradiol concentration 5 pg ml be at increase risk of hip and vertebral fracture .
 in addition to the contribution of low estrogen to increased fracture risk epidemiologic study in large population of postmenopausal woman have seek to identify additional fracture risk factor that be independent of bmd status .
 in a prospective study of 672 healthy postmenopausal woman independent predictor of fracture include age 65 year prior fall leave grip strength maternal fracture history low physical activity and personal fragility fracture history .
 several additional risk factor however include body weight weight loss and smoking do not predict fracture risk independent of another study in nearly postmenopausal woman identify risk factor that contribute to hip fracture .
 the author conclude that individual risk factor each have a minimal effect on fracture risk but that the combination of multiple risk factor significantly increase fracture furthermore woman in this study with low bmd and multiple risk factor have the great risk of suggest that a comprehensive risk assessment may good identify woman at risk of fracture .
 bone loss and fracture risk during breast cancer therapy .
 women with breast cancer may already have an elevate risk of fracture compare with age-matched woman with no history of cancer .
 in addition to fracture risk factor experience by healthy postmenopausal woman breast cancer and therapy may increase bone turnover and bone loss .
 furthermore direct toxic effect of some chemotherapy treatment may also contribute to the increase in fracture risk .
 evidence for high fracture risk in breast cancer survivor come from a prospective longitudinal cohort study of postmenopausal woman enrolled in the women 's health initiative observational study whi-os fracture datum be collect from postmenopausal breast cancer survivor and woman without breast cancer and adjust for age body weight ethnicity and region of enrollment .
 in this analysis woman with breast cancer have a increase risk of fracture compare with woman without breast in another study woman with breast cancer and no bone metastases have a nearly five-fold increase risk of vertebral fracture compare with healthy age-matched woman and that risk increase to approximately 23 fold in woman with recurrent soft-tissue disease for both taken together the result from this clinical trial indicate that survivor of breast cancer be at increase risk of fracture .
 chemotherapy treatment for breast cancer be of particular concern in premenopausal woman because chemotherapy-induced premature menopause may result in rapid and significant bone in contrast to premenopausal woman who experience bone loss secondary to premature ovarian failure postmenopausal woman may experience direct negative effect of chemotherapy on bone metabolism .
 a retrospective chart review demonstrate that postmenopausal woman who undergo chemotherapy for early breast cancer experience a significant decrease in bmd compare with woman who have not receive moreover the author of the study suggest that the observe bmd decrease standard deviation in patient who receive chemotherapy may result in an approximate increase risk of .
 in addition to chemotherapy woman with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer may also receive aromatase inhibitor ai as part of adjuvant regimen .
 although ai therapy have demonstrate significant improvement in disease-free survival compare with tamoxifen it be also associate with increase bone loss and fracture incidence .
 because low-level estrogen be bone protective in postmenopausal woman depletion of residual estrogen during ai therapy result in significant bone loss .
 in the anastrozole tamoxifen alone or in combination atac trial woman receive anastrozole have elevate level of biochemical marker of bone turnover and experience significant bmd loss at both the lumbar spine and total hip after 2 year of therapy bone loss continue throughout the duration of therapy and after 5 year of anastrozole treatment patient have experience an approximate bmd decline compare with patient who receive tamoxifen at lumbar spine at total hip for both fracture incidence be also significantly high in patient receive anastrozole compare with tamoxifen respectively 1 .
 full-size image 19k aromatase inhibitor therapy increase fracture in woman with breast cancer .
 shown be fracture incidence in patient receive aromatase inhibitor therapy tamoxifen and placebo in four clinical trial a tamoxifen alone or in combination15 b exemestane study16 c big international group 1-9817 and d cancer institute of canada clinical trial group adapted with permission from .
 view within article .
 increased bone loss and fracture incidence appear to be common side effect of all ai therapy .
 after 2 year of therapy woman enrolled in the breast international group big 1 98 study who receive letrozole experience significantly much fracture than woman who receive tamoxifen women in the letrozole monotherapy arm continue to have significantly much fracture than woman in the tamoxifen monotherapy arm after 5 year of treatment similarly the 58 month result from the intergroup exemestane study ies show that fracture be significantly much frequent in woman who switch to exemestane compare with woman who continue on tamoxifen overall result from the ai trial indicate that patient will experience significant bone loss and be at increase risk of fracture .
 thus treatment strategy that allow patient to gain the clinical benefit of ai therapy without increase fracture risk be need .
 managing fracture risk in patient with breast cancer .
 it be clear that many breast cancer therapy that improve patient survival and reduce disease recurrence may also have a detrimental effect on bone health .
 unfortunately guideline for the management of bone health in woman with breast cancer have fall behind currently available clinical trial datum .
 as outline in the american society of clinical oncology asco guideline annual bmd screening be recommend in patient who be at high risk of experience fracture .
 however only patient who fall below the threshold for osteoporosis be direct to receive pharmacologic therapy alendronate risedronate zoledronic acid or raloxifene in this setting an osteoporotic threshold may be too low to identify woman who be at an increase risk of fracture .
 for example in a large observational study in healthy postmenopausal woman the majority of woman who sustain osteoporotic fracture within 1 year of bmd testing have t-score great than furthermore of fracture occur in woman with osteopenic t-score to and this woman would not have be consider for therapeutic intervention use the t-score threshold specify in the asco available datum from the livial intervention follow breast cancer efficacy recurrence and tolerability endpoints liberate trial suggest that woman with breast cancer may have significant bone loss before begin ai measurement of baseline lumbar spine bmd indicate that of patient be osteoporotic t-score and be osteopenic t-score to before initiate treatment in the this suggest that at least of woman begin ai therapy may already have considerable bone loss .
 a number of therapeutic option be available for the pharmacologic prevention of postmenopausal bone loss however several of this treatment may be problematic in the context of patient with breast cancer .
 in particular hormone-replacement therapy may promote tumorigenesis or reduce the effectiveness of adjuvant chemotherapy in hormone-sensitive cancer .
 furthermore oral bisphosphonate administer at dose indicate for the treatment of osteoporosis may be insufficient to protect bone in the face of bone loss accelerate by cancer treatment .
 in this setting evidence from several clinical trial indicate that the much viable treatment option to prevent ai-associated bone loss aibl and the associate fracture may be intravenous nitrogen-containing bisphosphonate .
 to that end the intravenous bisphosphonate zoledronic acid have be examine in three clinical trial for prevention of aibl in both pre- and postmenopausal woman undergo ai therapy .
 ovarian ablation combine with endocrine therapy in premenopausal woman with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer result in the near-complete suppression of estrogen production and may increase the risk of bone loss and fracture .
 the austrian breast and colorectal cancer study group abcsg-12 trial compare goserelin ovarian suppression plus tamoxifen or anastrozole in premenopausal woman with hormone-responsive breast cancer .
 in a bmd substudy of this trial patient receive endocrine treatment with or without zoledronic acid 4 mg every 6 month and bmd be measure at baseline and at 6 12 24 and 36 month .
 women who receive endocrine therapy without concurrent zoledronic acid experience significant overall bone loss throughout the 3 year of treatment .
 after 36 month patient receive anastrozole have a significant bmd loss at the lumbar spine and an bmd loss at the hip and respectively compare with baseline in a similar manner patient who receive tamoxifen experience bmd loss of at the spine and at the hip and respectively however bmd be unaffected by endocrine therapy in woman who receive concurrent zoledronic acid and remain stable throughout the 36 month of treatment furthermore zoledronic acid significantly decrease the proportion of patient who become osteopenic during endocrine therapy and prevent patient receive anastrozole from become this result demonstrate that premenopausal woman receive endocrine therapy for breast cancer be subject to significant bone loss at both the spine and hip .
 zoledronic acid administer every 6 month during endocrine treatment can prevent cancer treatment-induced bone loss in this patient population .
 full-size image 9k upfront zoledronic acid prevent bone loss in premenopausal woman with breast cancer receive endocrine therapy .
 change from baseline t-score over time in the lumbar spine of patient treat for 36 month with anastrozole or tamoxifenzoledronic acid be show .
 all patient receive goserelin .
 reprinted from gnant et zoledronic acid prevent cancer treatment-induced bone loss in premenopausal woman receive adjuvant endocrine therapy for hormone-responsive breast cancer a report from the austrian breast and colorectal cancer study group j clin oncol 8 .
 reprinted with permission of the american society of clinical oncology .
 view within article .
 postmenopausal woman already have significantly reduce estrogen production and ai therapy can deplete residual estrogen level thus increase bone loss and fracture risk .
 the companion zometa femara adjuvant synergy trial z-fast and zo-fast will evaluate 4 mg zoledronic acid administer every 6 month for prevention of aibl in patient with breast cancer receive patient be randomized to receive zoledronic acid concomitantly with ai therapy upfront or at the first sign of significant bone loss t-score 2 or fracture delay .
 after 12 month on the z-fast study patient who receive upfront zoledronic acid experience bmd increase of at the lumbar spine and at the hip while woman in the delay group experience significant bmd loss and respectively for both 3 the observe bmd change within each group appear to correlate with change in biochemical marker of bone metabolism .
 serum level of n-telopeptide of type i collagen ntx and bone-specific alkaline phosphatase balp be significantly increase in the delay group and significantly decrease in the upfront recently combine 12 month datum from z-fast and zo-fast be present and this integrate analysis confirm that upfront zoledronic acid prevent bone loss during ai furthermore result in patient who complete 2 year of therapy indicate that upfront zoledronic acid continue to suppress marker of bone metabolism and patient gain and bmd at the lumbar spine and total hip over the delay additional follow-up of this trial will define the long-term benefit of zoledronic acid combine with ai in early stage breast cancer .
 full-size image 15k upfront zoledronic acid prevent aromatase inhibitor-associated bone loss in postmenopausal woman with breast cancer .
 mean standard error of the mean percentage change in bone mineral density of the lumbar spine and the total hip be show at month 6 and 12 in woman with early-stage breast cancer administer upfront or delay zoledronic acid p value correspond to intragroup comparison from baseline to month reprinted from brufsky et zoledronic acid inhibit adjuvant letrozole-induced bone loss in postmenopausal woman with early breast cancer j clin oncol 36 .
 reprinted with permission of the american society of clinical oncology .
 view within article .
 conclusion .
 data from multiple clinical trial indicate that patient with breast cancer be at increase risk of fracture compare with healthy postmenopausal woman .
 current guideline for bone health management in patient with breast cancer rely on osteoporotic bmd as a treatment indicator and fail to identify a large proportion of woman at risk of fracture .
 in addition to the risk factor experience by healthy postmenopausal woman such as low bmd age personal history of fragility fracture family history of hip fracture use of glucocorticoid and low body mass index patient with breast cancer be expose to numerous unique fracture risk factor .
 clearly breast cancer alone appear to increase the risk of fracture independent of other risk and treatment include chemotherapy gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogue and ai therapy can have a profound negative effect on bone health and thereby increase fracture risk .
 as such future bone health management guideline will need to include a comprehensive fracture risk assessment to guide treatment decision .
 modern treatment for breast cancer have significantly prolong patient survival and ai therapy have far extend disease-free survival beyond what have be achieve with tamoxifen .
 one consequence of improve survival be the increase need to address bone health issue in this patient .
 fortunately clinical trial have demonstrate the efficacy of zoledronic acid for the prevention of aibl when administer concurrently with endocrine therapy .
 therefore zoledronic acid in combination with ai may optimize clinical outcome by allow patient to receive the much effective treatment without increase fracture risk .
 conflict of interest statement .
 hadji receive honorarium unrestricted educational grant and research funding from the follow company amgen astrazeneca eli lilly glaxosmithkline msd novartis nova nordisk opfermann organon pfizer procter gamble roche sanofi aventis solvay and wyeth .
 role of funding source .
 this article be support by an unrestricted educational grant provide by novartis pharmaceutical corporation .
 acknowledgment .
 financial support for medical editorial assistance be provide by novartis pharmaceutical corporation .
 we thank michael hobert proed communication for medical editorial assistance with this manuscript .
 the environmental exposure to cd occur through contaminate food and cigarette smoke .
 for the general population tobacco smoking be an important source of cd exposure who icps 1992 .
 cd be classify as a category i carcinogen by the international agency for research on cancer iarc 1993 .
 however in comparison with the other carcinogenic metal cd be not a strong cancer initiator and instead it be a weak mutagen .
 cd-induced stimulation of cellular signaling at various stage of the mitogenic cascade such as proto-oncogene expression dna synthesis and cell proliferation in various mammalian cell system be think to be the mechanism for the carcinogenic action of this metal .
 during the last decade a grow body of evidence have accumulate suggest that in certain cell type micromolar concentration of cd be able to initiate a series of rapid signaling event include generation of second massagers ip3 camp within 15 s smith et 1989 and yamagami et 1998 increase in intracellular calcium within 3 min smith et 1989 and yamagami et 1998 activation of certain kinase hung et 1998 galan et misra et and misra et and induction of early response gene c-fos and c-myc within min beyersmann and hechtenberg 1997 misra et and misra et .
 since this signal be generate soon after cd exposure it argue against a physiological interaction between cd and intracellular protein .
 it have be postulate that cd might bind to and activate a putative cell membrane receptor and trigger the downstream signaling event .
 however only a limited number of study misra et and misra et have explore this possibility and there be no definitive study that elucidate the nature of the receptor that might possibly mediate this effect .
 estrogen can modulate cellular function through non-genomic action which be initiate from the cell membrane .
 there be two propose model for the rapid response to estrogen action .
 the first model propose that the membrane-bound estrogen receptor alpha mer be associate with the cell membrane protein include g protein and receptor tyrosine kinase and mediate the rapid signaling induce by estrogen razandi et razandi et razandi et and pedram et .
 the second model propose that another membrane g protein-coupled protein be involve in this process filardo et filardo et norman et hewitt et revankar et and thomas et .
 although the nature of mer be still debate song and santen and warner and gustafsson there be evidence that in certain cell type a small fraction of er that be associate with the cell membrane and originate from the same transcript of classical er be require for rapid effect of estrogen razandi et razandi et razandi et song et and pedram et .
 at relatively low dose 5 g kg ip cd be able to increase uterine weight promote growth and development of mammary gland and induce hormone-regulated gene in ovariectomized rat .
 as a xenoestrogen cd have the ability to bind to er with high affinity kd and activate and alter estrogen target gene transcription and expression garcia-morales et 1994 and stoica et .
 if the non-genomic effect of 17 estradiol e2 be mediate by mer it be conceivable that cd may also trigger a rapid signaling cascade by the same mechanism .
 mitogen activate protein kinase mapk be serine threonine protein kinase that play important role in the signaling cascade regulate cellular process such as cell proliferation differentiation and apoptosis .
 three major subfamilies have be describe extracellular-regulated kinase erk c-jun n-terminal kinase jnk and p38 kinase .
 depending on the cellular context and stimulator there be a significant cross talk between transduction module as they can respond to a common upstream activator and phosphorylate common down stream target .
 in general the erk pathway be preferentially activate in response to growth and differentiation factor while jnk and p38 kinase be much sensitive to stress stimulus include heat shock inflammatory cytokine ultraviolet and gamma irradiation and hyperosmolarity .
 the cell show different temporal and dose-response pattern to cd treatment in term of activation of mapk .
 among the three major subfamilies of mapk erk1 2 be usually activate by cd much early than jnk and p38 kinase alam et chuang et chuang and yang huang et and iryo et .
 additionally rapid activation of erk1 2 be widely use as an endpoint to reflect e2-induced non-genomic effect in a variety of cell type filardo et filardo et razandi et razandi et razandi et and pedram et .
 the activation of either erk1 2 or akt or both pro-survival kinase prevent cell from undergo apoptosis induce by certain chemical or physical agent .
 the serine threonine protein kinase pi3k akt be also activate by various growth and survival factor .
 akt promote cell survival through two distinct pathway inhibition of apoptosis by phosphorylation of the bad component of the bad bcl xl complex cause dissociation of the bad bcl xl complex and allow cell survival and activation of ikk that ultimately lead to nf-kb activation and cell survival .
 e2 can induce the activation of akt in endothelial cell from wild type mouse within 15 min but not in cell from er er combined-deleted mouse .
 report that in 1ln prostate cell akt be activate by 1 m cd within min .
 the present study be design to investigate rapid signaling in response to cd in three human breast cancer cell line with different expression profile for er er and .
 material and method chemical and biochemical .
 e2 and phenol red-free dmem ham 's f12 be obtain from sigma-aldrich louis mo .
 fetal bovine serum fbs be purchase from hyclone logan ut .
 the synthetic estrogen antagonist ici be purchase from sigma-aldrich louis mo .
 antibody against phospho-erk1 2 phospho-akt ser473 phospho-er ser118 erk2 and akt be purchase from cell signaling technology danvers ma .
 the anti-er antibody be purchase from santa cruz biotechnology santa cruz california .
 blocking buffer be obtain from li-cor lincon ne .
 for sirna study a smart pool of double-stranded sirna against human er her and non-specific sirna be obtain from dharmacon tech lafayette co .
 the sirna transfection reagent siport lipid be purchase from ambion austin tx .
 all the other chemical reagent be either from sigma-aldrich louis mo or fisher scientific suwanee ga .
 cell culture .
 the three breast cancer cell line mcf-7 er- er- and mda-mb-231 er-positive and sk-br-3 positive be purchase from american type culture collection mannassas va .
 the cell be grow and maintain in phenol red-free dmem ham 's f12 medium contain g l sodium bicarbonate fbs and mg l gentamicin filardo et and filardo et .
 stock culture be maintain in the complete medium in a humidify atmosphere of air co2 at 37 c and employ for experiment within 15 serial passage .
 the cell be sub-cultivated every 6 7 day use a mixture of trypsin and edta .
 cell exposure and preparation of cell extract .
 the cell 1 cm2 be seed in t-75 flask or 6 well cell culture plate in phenol red-free dmem f-12 medium contain fbs .
 the next day the medium be replace with the phenol red-free serum-free medium and the cell be maintain for 48 h .
 treatment of quiescent cell confluence with cd be carry out at 37 c in phenol red-free serum-free medium as describe in the legend .
 since m cd have be commonly use by other researcher for study the effect of cd on mapk chuang et chuang and yang huang et and iryo et the same concentration be use in the present study for comparison with the early report .
 as determine by the mtt and trypan blue exclusion assay treatment of cell with m cd for min do not cause cytotoxicity datum not show .
 at the end of cd treatment the cell be wash twice with ice-cold phosphate-buffered saline pbs and lysed with ice-cold ripa buffer mm sodium chloride mm tris ph deoxycholatic sodium sodium dodecyl sulfate sds triton mm sodium pyrophosphate mm navo4 2 mm pmsf mm naf 2 mm edta plus protease inhibitor cocktail at a ratio of .
 the cell lysate be centrifuged at g for 15 min and the supernatant be store at c until analyzed .
 the protein concentration be determine use micro bca reagent kit from pierce biotechnology rockford il accord to the manufacturer 's instruction .
 western blot analysis .
 prior to electrophoresis the cell extract be heat at 95 c for 5 min in laemmli buffer contain -mecaptoethanol .
 the amount of protein in the extract use for electrophoresis be keep constant in the same experiment but vary between the experiment 15 g .
 after electrophoresis the protein be electrotransferred to nitrocellulose membrane at v for min by use trans-blot sd semi-dry transfer cell bio-rad hercules .
 the membrane be then block with the li-cor block buffer for 1 h at room temperature and incubate with primary antibody dilute in contain bsa pbst-bsa overnight at 4 c or for 1 h at room temperature .
 the nitrocellulose membrane be wash and incubate with secondary antibody labeled with alexa fluor dilute in block buffer contain for 1 h follow by extensive washing with .
 the wash membrane be scan with the odyssey infrared imager li-cor lincon ne and the optical density of the band be quantify by use the application software version .
 transfection with the small interfere rna sirna the sirna transfection be conduct accord to the instruction provide by dharmacon tech lafayette co .
 briefly the cell be transfected with either non-specific sirna control or sirna against human er her and allow to recover overnight .
 the cell be serum-deprived for 24 h prior to treatment with cd .
 data analysis .
 each experiment be repeat three time and the optical density datum be statistically analyzed for significant difference by one-way anova follow by the tukey kramer test at p .
 result activation of erk1 2 the presence of phosphorylated threonine and tyrosine residue in mapk correlate with the activity of kinase .
 thus to assess activate erk1 2 level the cell extract be process use western blot analysis use antibody against phosphorylated peptide encompass erk1 2 residue .
 first the time-course of cd-induced erk1 2 activation be compare between the mcf-7 mda-mb-231 and sk-br-3 cell .
 e2 be use as a positive control and response pattern comparison be make between e2 nm and cd m .
 the effect of medium change on the erk1 2 phosphorylation be examine in untreated mcf-7 cell and no significant change be observe datum not show .
 as depict in 1a b g and h the temporal response pattern of erk1 2 activation induce by cd in mcf-7 cell be similar to that induce by e2 .
 maximal erk1 2 activation by both e2 and cd be observe at min follow by a gradual decrease over the min period .
 in contrast to the mcf-7 cell neither cd nor e2 activate erk1 2 in the mda-mb-231 cell that express only er 1c d g and h .
 however in the sk-br-3 cell that express only both cd and e2 cause transient activation of erk1 2 1e f g and h similar to that observe in the mcf-7 cell .
 this result indicate that mer and but not er be important in cd-induced rapid signaling of erk1 2 .
 full-size image 96k high-quality image 783k time-course of erk1 2 activation by cd and e2 in three different breast cancer cell a b mcf-7 cell c d mda-mb-231 cell and e f sk-br-3 cell .
 the quiescent cell be treat with m cd or nm e2 for up to min .
 comparison of temporal response pattern of cd- and e2-induced erk1 2 activation in the three cell line be show in g and data be present as mean sd from three independent experiment .
 significantly high than the basal level for the respective cell p .
 view within article .
 the concentration-response datum of mcf-7 cell to m cd be show in 2a and the cell expose to the low concentration of cd m for min show a significant increase fold in erk1 activation .
 the maximum activation fold be see at 5 m cd .
 full-size image 18k high-quality image concentration-response pattern of erk1 2 activation by cd in mcf-7 cell .
 quiescent mcf-7 cell be treat with up to m cd for min .
 data be present as mean sd from three independent experiment .
 significantly high than the basal level p .
 view within article .
 activation of akt .
 since akt be activate through phosphorylation of threonine by an upstream kinase the activation of akt can be detect by western blot analysis use a phospho-specific antibody that recognize the peptide contain threonine residue .
 as with erk1 2 medium change have no significant effect on the phosphorylation of akt in the untreated mcf-7 cell datum not show .
 as show in 3a and g cd significantly increase fold the phosphorylated akt in mcf-7 cell within min and continue to do so fold for the duration of the experiment .
 the e2- induce akt activation exhibit a similar pattern 3b and h .
 in the mda-mb-231 cell cd but not e2 induce a moderate activation of akt only at min 3c d g and h .
 in comparison akt phosphorylation in the sk-br-3 cell be not affect by either cd or e2 at any time similar to the response of this cell to erk1 2 phosphorylation .
 thus this datum also point to the involvement of mer in akt signaling by cd .
 full-size image high-quality image 669k time-course of akt activation by cd and e2 in three different breast cancer cell a b mcf-7 cell c d mda-mb-231 cell and e f sk-br-3 cell .
 the quiescent cell be treat with m cd or nm e2 for up to min .
 comparison of temporal response pattern of cd- and e2-induced akt activation in the three cell line be show in g and data be present as mean sd from three independent experiment .
 significantly high than the basal level for the respective cell p .
 view within article .
 phosphorylation of er .
 the result obtain for both erk1 2 and akt phosphorylation in the mcf-7 cell suggest that mer might play a role in cd-induced rapid signaling .
 thus to further delineate involvement in signaling process the phosphorylation of er be investigate in quiescent mcf-7 cell after treatment with cd and e2 .
 as show in 4a and c cd transiently elevate fold the level of phosphorylated receptor at min .
 in comparison e2 cause a gradual and much sustain er phosphorylation .
 full-size image 29k high-quality image time-course of er phosphorylation by cd and e2 in mcf-7 cell .
 phosphorylation of er in quiescent cell by a c m cd and b nm e2 .
 temporal response pattern of cd be show in data be present as mean sd from three independent experiment .
 significantly high than the basal level p .
 view within article .
 effect of an estrogen antagonist on erk1 2 and akt activation .
 since e2-induced rapid activation of erk1 2 in mcf-7 cell be through mer ici an estrogen antagonist be able to antagonize both e2-induced genomic and non-genomic rapid signaling effect .
 in the present study the possible role of mer in cd-induced rapid signaling be examine use the same antagonist .
 the quiescent mcf-7 cell be pretreated with m ici for 15 min and then treat with m cd or nm e2 for min in the presence of the antagonist .
 the ici stock solution mm be prepare in ethanol thus the control cell be incubate with medium contain ethanol .
 as depict in 5a d whereas the antagonist complete block the e2-induced phosphorylation of both kinase .
 it have no significant effect on the cd-induced phosphorylation of either kinase .
 lack of effect of cd-induced activation of erk1 2 and akt by the receptor antagonist be contrary to all the other result obtain thus far and suggest an mer-independent mechanism .
 full-size image 48k high-quality image effect of er antagonist on cd- and e2-induced activation of erk1 2 and akt in mcf-7 cell .
 the quiescent cell be pretreated with ici m or the vehicle ethanol for 15 min and then treat with either m cd or nm e2 in the presence of the antagonist for a c phosphorylation of erk1 2 and b d phosphorylation of akt .
 data be present as mean sd from three independent experiment .
 significantly high than the control cell p .
 low than the cell treat with e2 alone p .
 view within article .
 effect of sirna against her on erk1 2 activation .
 to further evaluate the role of mer in cd-induced rapid activation of erk1 2 and akt a second approach be utilize in which specific sirna be use to knockdown the expression of the receptor .
 transfection with her sirna markedly but not completely suppress the expression er in quiescent mcf-7 cell 6a and b .
 this level of suppression of er expression be sufficient to completely block the e2-induced rapid activation of both erk1 2 and akt 6a d .
 in comparison it only partially block the cd-induced activation of erk1 2 6a and c but completely block the activation of akt 6b and d .
 this result suggest that in addition to mer other receptor might also be involve in interact with cd .
 full-size image 56k high-quality image effect of suppression of er expression on cd- and e2-induced activation of erk1 2 and akt in mcf-7 cell .
 forty eight hour after transfection with the non-specific or specific her sirna the quiescent cell be treat with either m cd or nm e2 for a c phosphorylation of erk1 2 and b d phosphorylation of akt .
 data be present as mean sd from three independent experiment .
 significantly high than the respective control cell p .
 low than the respective cd- or e2-treated cell transfected with non-specific sirna p .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 cd have be describe as an endocrine disrupt chemical by a number of investigator takiguchi and yoshihara and henson and chedrese .
 as a xenoestrogen cd can alter the expression of certain estrogen target gene and affect breast tissue development in ovariectomized rat .
 other metal such as arsenic and uranium have also be evaluate for the reproductive tissue effect but cd be the only one with demonstrate effect on mammary proliferation johnson et and fenton .
 although there be no definitive epidemiological evidence show a positive relationship between cd exposure and breast cancer incidence in the general population nagata et and mcelroy et as a xenoestrogen cd may play a role in cancer promotion and progression after the cancer be initiate brody and rudel and yager and davidson .
 the mechanism by which cd disrupt endocrine function remain poorly understand .
 the result obtain in the present study demonstrate that in mcf-7 cell a relatively benign breast cancer cell line cd be able to rapidly activate erk1 2 akt and er at a micromolar concentration within min .
 under the same exposure condition sk-br-3 cell a moderately malignant breast cancer cell line respond a bit much slowly min in term of erk1 2 activation .
 in comparison a highly invasive breast cancer cell line mda-mb-231 do not show a rapid response to cd treatment at all .
 from the dramatic response difference between this three cell line it be speculate that sensitivity to cd might be associate with the relative invasiveness of the breast cancer cell .
 since activation of both erk1 2 and akt play a role in regulate various cellular process such as cell growth cell differentiation and apoptosis induce by certain chemical or physical agent much study need to be perform to further elucidate how cd-induced rapid signaling affect the normal function of breast tissue and it 's susceptibility to certain stress .
 in the present study cd also induce rapid phosphorylation of er which might make the cell much sensitive to relatively low level of e2 .
 although the downstream effect be not investigate in the present study the result of erk1 2 akt and er phosphorylation suggest that even occasional exposure to cd might cause transient effect on the normal physiology of the breast tissue and might disrupt the normal homeostasis especially if the exposure occur in early critical period of breast development .
 the potential short-term exposure to low concentration of cd i of environmental health importance and may have biological significance especially when the subject be co-exposed to other chemical or physical stress agent .
 the result present in this study also show that cd like e2 cause rapid phosphorylation of erk1 2 in mcf-7 cell only min after treatment .
 this suggest that cd and e2 possibly share a similar downstream signal transduction pathway and regulatory mechanism .
 the rapid inactivation of erk1 2 imply the existence of a tightly control regulatory mechanism .
 in contrast to this result report that m cd do not induce significant activation of erk1 2 in mcf-7 bus cell during the 5 min treatment period .
 although the difference in biological characteristic and sensitivity to e2 and endocrine disruptors among various mcf-7 cell stock may partially contribute to the difference in cd-induced rapid activation of erk1 2 it be also possible that m cd be too low a concentration to detect any significant effect .
 in this regard the present study provide a much comprehensive concentration-response datum about cd-induced rapid signaling in the mcf-7 cell between and m concentration .
 report increase phosphorylation of erk1 2 in the mcf-7 cell in response to cd start at 15 min and peak at 1 h .
 they use mcf-7 n variant cell which partly account for result and those report in the present study .
 secondly this investigator use dmem contain phenol red and perform 24 h serum starvation before exposure .
 the present study utilize phenol red-free dmem f-12 medium and serum starve the cell for 48 h .
 matsuoka and igisu have show that without serum starvation m cd induce significant phosphorylation of erk1 2 in mcf-7 cell only after 18 h of exposure .
 furthermore because phenol-red be a weak estrogen mimic it can interfere with the effect of estrogen .
 therefore phenol-red should be exclude from the medium when study the effect of estrogen or endocrine disruptors .
 additionally since erk1 2 can be activate very rapidly early time point need to be consider in design such study .
 observe that short treatment of septal murine cell sn56 with e2 cause a biphasic activation of erk1 2 with peak induction at 4 8 min in the early phase and 8 h in the second phase .
 similarly report that treatment of hepg2 cell with e2 also cause a biphasic phosphorylation of akt with peak at 3 and min respectively .
 furthermore that the first wave of activation be er-independent whereas the second be er-dependent .
 study cd-induced activation of erk1 2 and akt in the mcf-7 cell and report maximum activation between 3 and 6 h .
 they conclude that this activation occur through an er-dependent mechanism because it be fully block by ici .
 in comparison in the present study cd cause rapid activation of erk1 2 at min in the mcf-7 cell and while it be not block by ici it be partially block in cell transfected with her .
 thus cd like e2 appear to induce a biphasic activation of erk1 2 and both the early and late phase possibly involve er .
 besides the breast cancer cell the activation of erk1 2 by cd have be report in several other cell type include human t lymphoblastoid ccrf-cem cell non-small-cell lung carcinoma cell line cl3 and mouse epidermal jb6 c141 cell iryo et chuang et chuang and yang and huang et .
 the phosphorylation of erk1 2 in the ccrf-cem cell treat with m cd occur after min exposure .
 in non-small-cell lung carcinoma cell line cl3 high concentration of cd m induce phosphorylation of erk1 2 after 6 h of treatment .
 similarly in mouse epidermal cell report that 1 m cd induce a sustain activation of erk1 2 between min and 9 h .
 wang and templeton report that erk1 2 activation in rat mesangial cell be involve in cd-induced c-fos mrna transcription and that inhibition of erk1 2 partially attenuate cd-induced c-fos transcription .
 thus different cell line show variation in response to cd-induced activation of erk1 2 in term of time-course and concentration-dependence .
 it be likely that multiple mechanism be involve in mediate this effect and that certain biological response be cell type specific .
 an important finding in this study be that the mda-mb-231 cell that express only er do not respond to cd ruling out the involvement of this receptor in cd signaling .
 another membrane receptor have be show to be involve in rapid e2 signaling event filardo et and filardo et .
 since the skbr-3 cell contain respond to cd this receptor also appear to interact with cd .
 in conclusion the result present here provide evidence that micromolar concentration of cd rapidly activate erk1 2 and akt in the mcf-7 and sk-br-3 cell .
 this process seem to involve mer and .
 it be plausible that cd also bind to other membrane receptor upstream kinase or g-protein couple protein which be associate with specialized cell membrane structural complex such as caveolae cause rapid activation of downstream kinase cascade wong et and chini and parenti .
 further study be need to elucidate the mechanism of cd-induced rapid signaling and to well understand how cd interfere with the cell signaling network affect normal physiological function and homeostasis .
 acknowledgment .
 the author thank dr .
 shahid karim jianxun xie and aftab ahmed for valuable assistance with various technique and fruitful zhiwei liu and xinyuan yu receive fellowship through ri-inbre grant from ncrr nih .
 this research be make possible by the use of the ri-inbre centralized research core facility support by the same grant .
 the view express in this manuscript be those of the author and do not necessarily represent the view of nih .
 for this receptor two primary peptide have high affinity .
 first the vip a 28 amino acid hydrophobic peptide isolate from porcine intestine .
 vip have three lysine lys residue at position 15 and 21 two tyrosine tyr residue at position and 22 two arginine arg residue at position 12 and 14 an essential histidine residue at the n terminus and asn amidated c-terminus .
 all 28 amino acid be require for full biologic activity of vip .
 second the pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide pacap .
 this 38 amino acid peptide be isolate from bovine hypothalamus .
 pacap be find to stimulate accumulation of intracellular and extracellular camp in rat anterior pituitary cell .
 later gottschall_et_al isolate a 27 amino acid peptide pacap27 from bovine hypothalamus which they observe to have similar property as pacap38 .
 pacap27 share a homology of 19 amino acid with vip28 .
 like vip28 pacap27 also have an amidated leu c-terminal and his at the n-terminal .
 the biological action of vip and pacap be mediate by a family of three g protein-coupled receptor which be designate as vpac1 vpac2 and pac1 .
 this gene receptor be also detect on the cell membrane of normal intestinal and bronchial epithelial cell albeit receptor density have not be specify .
 for human tumor on the other hand study have reveal that vpac1 vpac2 and pac1 receptor be locate at the plasma membrane of the tumor cell .
 among the tumor on which vpac1 receptor have be find in high density and high incidence include cancer of breast prostate and urinary bladder colon pancreas lung stomach and liver .
 with the goal that radiolabeled vip28 can specifically target this receptor for in vivo visualization of some of this human tumor virgolini et al labeled vip28 with iodine-123 123i t1 2 h 159 kev at tyrosine position and 22 .
 taking into consideration the ubiquitous availability and predominant world wide role in nuclear medicine we labeled vip28 and pacap27 with 99mtechnetium 99mtc t1 2 6 h kev which require modification of the peptide to covalently accommodate a group of additional amino acid to chelate 99mtc .
 the use of 99mtc analogue allow efficient imaging of human breast cancer .
 positron emission tomography pet permit high imaging resolution lead to the visualization of small tumor 2 mm .
 pet imaging of tumor with 18flourine 18f labeled vip have not be highly appealing .
 for pet imaging goal be to label vip and pacap analogue with another radionuclide namely 64copper 64cu .
 this radionuclide have a long half life t1 2 h 655 573 kev be available commercially have abundantly know chemistry and provide nearly quantitative yield so that labeled compound once prepare can be inject without far purification .
 in an attempt to develop vip28 analogue with high receptor affinity and well in vivo stability bolin_et_al and have synthesize and characterize several analogue of vip28 molecule .
 based upon this datum we choose two good additional vip28 analogue make a total of four .
 to enable labeling with 64cu each of the four peptide be far derivatized as describe in the material and method section .
 the purpose of this investigation be to evaluate this analogue to ascertain that biological activity and receptor specificity be not compromise as compare to those of the vip28 and to determine suitability for pet imaging of human breast cancer .
 material and method .
 three analogue of the vip peptide tp3939 and tp3982 and one of pacap all name after molecular weight be synthesize and labeled with 64cu or 99mtc .
 amino acid sequence be give in table we have evaluate the analogue for functional activity and receptor affinity in vitro for blood clearance and in vivo stability in athymic nude mouse bear t47d human breast cancer cell and for affinity for human breast cancer specimen ex vivo .
 table .
 amino acid sequence molecular weight and purity of the analogue .
 name of analogueobserved molecular weight amu calculated molecular weight amu sequence of amino acidspurity of peptide phe-leu-asn-ser-val-leu-thr-gaba-lys- dap- bma 2 dap- bma 2 95 .
 lys-c -lys-tyr-leu-asn-asp- -leu-lys-lys-ala-ala-ala-gaba-lys- dap-bma 2 dap- bma 2 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 synthesis of the peptide analogue .
 the analogue be synthesize so as to harbor a carboxy-terminus lysine residue separate from vip-asparagine by 4 aminobutyric acid as a spacer .
 the chelating agent use be diaminedithiol n2 s2 .
 the synthesis and hplc purification be carry out by the american peptide company sunnyvale .
 briefly the peptide be synthesize on preloaded polyethylene glycol peg resin via 9 fluorenylmethyloxycabonyl fmoc chemistry .
 the peptide chain be assemble on the resin by repetitive removal of fmoc protect group and couple of the protect amino acid .
 the couple agent use be 1 3 diisopropyl carbodiimide dic and n-hydroxybenzotrazole hobt .
 piperidine in n n-dimethyl formamide dmf be use as de-fmoc agent .
 the cyclic peptide be prepare separately by convert the linear fragment through a lactam bond between the side chain of lys21 and asp25 make in a solution phase .
 the cyclic fragment be purify via preparative rp-hplc and be assemble in the main chain peptide by dic hobt couple .
 the side chain protect group be cleave and remove by treat the peptide resin with trifluoroacetic acid tfa .
 the crude peptide be precipitate from cold ether and collect by filtration and purify via rp-hplc use triethylammonium phosphate teap and acetic acid buffer on water c18 hplc column .
 linear gradient of acetonitrile be use .
 pooled fraction be lyophilized .
 the peptide be verify by mass spectroscopic and amino acid analysis .
 the analogue be name accord to molecular weight .
 radiolabeling of peptide analogue with 64cu .
 high specific activity no carrier add 64cu t1 2 of h 655 and 573 kev be obtain either from washington university school of medicine st .
 louis mo isotrace columbia mo or from nordion inc kanata ontario canada .
 to g of an analogue in l of mol l glycine buffer ph 9 in a siliconized 5-ml glass test tube be add g of sncl2 in 5 l mol l hcl deprotecting agent and ci of 64cu in 1 l mol l hcl .
 the mixture be vortexed and incubate at c for 45 minute .
 radiolabeling of peptide analogue with 99mtc .
 in this study 99mtc preparation be use only for cell binding assay when 64cu be not available .
 ten ug of the analogue be dispense in a 5 ml glass test tube to which be also add g sncl2 in 4 l mol l hcl mci 99mtc in l nacl and l of mol l na3po4 at ph the reaction mixture be vortexed and incubate at room temperature for min .
 we then add 1 ml of mol l nah2po4 solution ph to neutralize the ph .
 quality control .
 radiochemical purity of each labeled analogue be determine use high-pressure liquid chromatography hplc shimadzu corporation kyoto couple to a uv detector nai tl radioactivity monitor and a rate meter .
 the reverse phase c18 microbound column mm mm serve as the stationary phase and two solvent acid tfa in h2o and tfa in acetonitrile as mobile phase .
 the gradient be such that ch3cn in aqueous cf3co2h to ch3cn in cf3co2h at a flow rate of 1 ml min over 32 min at 22 .
 functional assay .
 vip in large quantity be a vasodilator and muscle relaxant .
 the muscle relaxant property be use to assess the biological and functional activity of each analogue and compare them with those of the native vip28 .
 the assay be based on the binding of vip to specific receptor produce a concentration-dependent decrease in the rest tension of the internal anal sphincter ias smooth muscle .
 the effect of different concentration of vip28 and the 4 analogue be determine until maximum fall in the basal tension of ias be reach .
 preparation of smooth muscle strip .
 two adult wistar rats be anesthetized and kill in accordance with the protocol approve by the institutional animal care and use committee .
 the distal anal canal be dissect out and transfer quickly to oxygenated krebs physiologic solution of the follow composition in mmol l nacl kcl cacl2 mgso4 nah2po4 25 nahco3 and glucose .
 the adhere blood vessel and extraneous tissue contain the external anal sphincter be then remove by sharp dissection .
 the anal canal be open and pin flat with the mucosal side up on a dissect tray contain oxygenate krebs solution .
 this be follow by removal of the mucosa use forceps and fine scissors and dissection of the ias circular smooth muscle strip approximately 2 mm wide and 1 cm long from the lowermost part of the anal canal .
 silk suture be tie to both end of the muscle strip for isometric tension measurement .
 measurement of isometric tension .
 the ias muscle strip be transfer to 2-ml muscle bath with krebs solution bubble continuously with a mixture of o2 and co2 at 37 one end of the muscle strip be tie to the bottom of the muscle bath and the other end be attach to an isometric force transducer model fto3 grass instruments quincy ma .
 isometric tension be measure use the powerlab 8sp datum acquisition system adinstruments castle hill nsw australia and record use chart adinstruments .
 initially 1 g of tension be apply to the muscle strip .
 the muscle strip be then allow to equilibrate for about 1 h with occasional washing .
 during this equilibration period strip develop steady tension .
 only strip that develop steady tension and relax in response to electrical field stimulation be use .
 both optimal length and base line of the muscle strip be determine .
 drug response .
 the effect of different concentration of vip28 and the 4 analogue on the rest ias tension be examine use cumulative concentration response .
 after a give concentration response curve be derived the muscle strip be wash continuously for 45 min before testing for the concentration response curve of another agent .
 maximum relaxation of the smooth muscle strip be determine after completely relax the muscle strip with mmol l ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid edta .
 the percentage of maximum fall in the ias tone be plot against the log concentration of the respective analogue and the value be calculate as the concentration at which of the relaxivity occur .
 culture of human breast cancer cell line .
 estrogen receptor-positive t47d breast tumor cell from american type culture collection be maintain in rpmi medium with 2 mm l-glutamine adjust to contain mm hepes mm sodium pyruvate g l sodium bicarbonate g l glucose and supplement with u ml bovine insulin and fetal bovine serum at 37 c under co2 air .
 the cell when confluent be detach use trypsin-edta wash and resuspended with medium at a concentration of approximately cell ml .
 cell binding assay .
 the t47d cell as grow above be seed into 48 well sterile plate corning incorporated-life science .
 to the cell cell well in quadruplicate be then add increase concentration from nm nm 8 sample of the labeled peptide and incubate 1 h in a humidify incubator at 37 c and co2 with air .
 the incubation be terminate by add ml of cold washing buffer make up of bsa medium .
 after 5 min the cell be wash thrice use the same buffer .
 the supernatant from each wash be collect into mark test tube .
 the cell be then solubilized with 1 m naoh at 37 c and collect in separate test tube .
 the procedure be repeat thrice and all the solubilized cell collect .
 the cell and supernatant be count for radioactivity in a gamma counter packard series meriden ct .
 the count datum permit us to calculate bound free b f radioactivity ratio and the number of peptide molecule in mole bind to cell .
 the datum be then plot as per scatchard and the kd value calculate use the guideline from assay guidance manual nih chemical genomic center .
 the procedure be repeat for tp3939 tp3982 and .
 autoradiography .
 the purpose of this study be to determine the receptor specific differential uptake on human breast cancer tissue versus the normal breast tissue .
 freshly freeze randomly choose and histologically prove human breast cancer n 13 and normal tissue n 7 be obtain from the institutional department of pathology .
 this be then section into m mount on to clean glass slide and store at the mount slide be allow to reach room temperature and the condensed moisture dry .
 approximately ci of the labeled analogue solution dilute in l of mm of tris hcl buffer ph contain 2 mm egt mm bacitracin and 5 mm mgcl2 be layer on the tissue and incubate at room temperature 22 c for min .
 the slide be then wash thoroughly with cold nacl solution dry and expose to a phosphor imaging plate .
 the plate be process use fujifilm flourescent image analyzer image gauge .
 the procedure be repeat for 13 breast cancer and 7 normal breast tissue .
 tissue incubate with each of the peptide analogue be analyzed and the photostimulated luminescence mm2 psl mm2 calculate for the tumor and the normal tissue .
 reverse transcription and real time polymerase chain reaction rt-pcr the goal of rt-pcr be to ascertain that the human breast cancer and normal tissue on which autoradiography be perform express vpac1 receptor and that the receptor expression density be different in tumor tissue and normal tissue .
 the tissue architecture of the sample of the human breast cancer and the normal tissue be disrupt by the addition of trizol in vitrogen life technology in the presence of mm zirconia silica bead to release the rna and then homogenize by rapid agitation use the procedure recommend by the manufacturer biospec product .
 the rna be extract and the total rna be then reverse transcribe use the pre-developed taqman assay reagent for one hour at 37 the result strand cdna be dilute and use as a template for the pcr reaction with taqman master mix use specific primer and probe for vpac1 .
 rt-pcr be perform use dna engine opticon system bio-rad system and the follow cycling condition 95 c for 15 s and c for 1 min for cycle .
 the expression level of the vpac1 be determine from the cycle threshold ct value normalize to human glyceraldehyde-phosphate dehydrogenase hu gapdh and standard curve use for calculation .
 blood clearance .
 blood clearance study of the radiolabeled analogue be perform in mouse .
 rapid blood clearance of radioactivity may minimize the back ground and thereby enable a well view of the target tissue .
 the study be carry out for each of the four 64cu analogue in group of 3 athymic nude mouse per analogue .
 the labeled peptide ci be administer through a lateral tail vein and sample of blood approximately l each be draw at 1 3 5 15 45 min and at 24 h post administration .
 to facilitate rapid and reliable blood draw a small incision be make in the low part of the tail and the other lateral vein be expose .
 after each blood draw pressure be apply to stop far bleeding .
 the sample be weigh and the radioactivity count in a gamma counter packard series meriden ct along with a standard 64cu solution prepare at the time of injection .
 the percentage inject dose gram g of blood be calculate and the mean sd for each time point be plot as a function of time .
 in vivo stability .
 the objective be to assess the in vivo stability of the administer 64cu peptide by determine transchelation of the 64cu from the peptide to plasma protein .
 analysis be perform by use sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis sds-page .
 eighteen percent tris glycine gel in vitrogen life technology be use .
 64cu labeled peptide in this instance tp3939 be administer through the lateral tail vein of athymic nude mouse and ml blood collect in a heparinized eppendorf vial follow euthanasia at 2 3 min .
 serum be collect after centrifugation rpm for min .
 tris glycine sds buffer and deionized water be add to the serum and load into a well .
 molecular weight standard to facilitate estimation of the molecular weight of the various protein band be load into another well .
 far much 64cu labeled tp3939 incubate with human serum albumin hsa 64cucl2 incubate with hsa be also apply .
 incubation with the buffer be carry out as explain above .
 finally incubate 64cucl2 alone be also apply .
 the voltage be maintain at v for 45 min .
 analysis be perform simultaneously on two gel .
 one gel be stain with coomassie blue destained cut and count for radioactivity associate with each protein band in a gamma counter .
 the other gel be use for autoradiography expose the gel to a phosphor imaging plate for 18 h after which it be stain with coomassie blue destained cut and count for radioactivity .
 the plate be process use fujifilm flourescent image analyzer image gauge .
 .
 synthesis and characterization .
 the amino acid sequence of each analogue be give in table 1 together with calculate and observe molecular weight and purity as determine by analytical hplc .
 radiochemical purity .
 the radiochemical purity of each 64cu labeled peptide as determine by hplc be and for cu-tp3939 64cu-tp3982 and respectively .
 retention time vary between to 1 represent a typical hplc elution curve .
 the diagonal line represent percent gradient .
 labeling efficiency be for 99mtc-tp3939 99mtc-tp3982 and respectively .
 full-size image 61k hplc elution profile of one of 64cu-tp3939 reveal of the radioactivity be bind to a peak at min .
 the uv peak be also centered around min .
 the diagonal line represent gradient as a function of time .
 view within article .
 functional assay response .
 the value of the peptide analogue be m for tp3939 m for tp3982 m for and m for respectively .
 the unaltered vip28 have an of m .
 this datum suggest that the biological activity of each analogue as compare to that of the vip28 be not compromise .
 table .
 and kd value of vip28 and analogue .
 8 9 m 8 9 m 9 9 m 8 9 m vip28 control 8 m15 9 m full-size table .
 view within article .
 full-size image 38k effect of increase concentration of vip28 and analogue as relaxivity of the tissue .
 value be present in the inset .
 view within article .
 cell binding assay .
 the dissociation constant kd for each of the 99mtc labeled peptide analogue be calculate and find to be 9 m for 64cu-tp3939 9 m for 64cu-tp3982 9 m for and 9 m for .
 full-size image 49k the cell binding datum plot as per scatchard for 99mtc-tp3939 .
 binding be perform use t47d human breast cancer cell that express vpac1 receptor .
 in this case we use 99mtc instead of 64cu as the biological activity of peptide analogue be not influence by the tracer use .
 the saturable plot represent receptor specific binding .
 the kd 1 slope be estimate use the nih chemical genomic center assay guidance manual version receptor binding .
 the kd value as calculate for the other analogue be give in table .
 view within article .
 autoradiography .
 the 13 human breast cancer tissue use be histopathologically diagnose as grade-3 invasive ductal carcinoma n high grade in situ micropapillary carcinoma n 1 high grade in situ microinvasive carcinoma n 1 and intermediate grade 2 tubulolobular carcinoma n 1 .
 in addition seven be histologically designate as normal .
 the tumor normal radioactivity ratio calculate use the quantitative analysis of the phosphor imaging plate range from to the ratio for the invasive ductal carcinoma be for 64cu-tp3939 for 64cu-tp3982 for and for .
 the ratio for the in situ microinvasive tumor be for 64cu-tp3939 for and for .
 for tubulolobular carcinoma the ratio be for 64cu-tp3982 and for .
 a typical image of an autoradiographic slide be show in .
 table .
 result of human breast cancer tissue autoradiography and rt-pcr ratio for tumor i normal tissue for each analogue t n invasive ductal gr-3 nt 118 in situ micropapillary n 1 in situ microinvasive high grade n 1 tubulolobular n 1 .
 full-size table .
 nd not do hpr histopathological report .
 view within article .
 full-size image 25k example of digital autoradiography in normal and breast cancer tissue incubate with .
 the image and the calculate tumor and normal psl mm2 invariably reflect high receptor expression in the tumor tissue .
 this result be consistent with those of the corresponding rt-pcr analytical datum .
 view within article .
 rt-pcr .
 we measure the vpac1 receptor expression in freshly freeze sample of human breast cancer and normal tissue by rt-pcr .
 following a series of 22 run 13 cancer tissue and 7 normal tissue the difference in receptor expression in tumor tissue be find to be 5 118 time great than normal tissue .
 the histopathology correlated tumor to normal vpac1 receptor expression ratio be as follow 5 118 for grade-3 invasive ductal tumor tissue n 6 for in situ micropapillary n 1 and for high grade in situ microinvasive n 1 .
 5 reveal a typical rt-pcr profile for the tumor sample and normal tissue .
 full-size image 74k rt-pcr of normal and human breast cancer tissue reveal distinct cycle difference between the tumor and the normal tissue .
 the fewer cycle be require to amplify the protein from tumor tissue as compare to the normal tissue .
 the density of vpac1 receptor be much in the tumor tissue t n 5 to 118 than that on the normal breast tissue .
 view within article .
 blood clearance .
 the blood clearance be biphasic the t1 2 be approximately min min min min and t1 2 of approximately min 45 min min and min for 64cu-tp3939 64cu-tp3982 and respectively .
 a typical graph of the time versus id g be display in .
 full-size image 29k the blood clearance study of one of the analogue .
 the clearance curve be biphasic t1 2 min and the t1 2 min .
 view within article .
 in vivo stability .
 polyacrylamide gel analysis indicate that at 2 min post injection approximately of the radioactivity remain as 64cu labeled peptide .
 the remain radioactivity be associate with protein of molecular weight of 6 kda and above lane 1 .
 similarly lane 2 in which the 64cu-tp3939 be incubate with hsa there be negligible transchelation to protein .
 in this experiment only approximately 3 of free 64cucl2 be bind to protein with molecular weight of 98 kda lane 3 .
 represent the separation of protein as visualize follow coomassie blue staining .
 the molecular weight standard be also 7b be the autoradiography of the various sample as explain in the methodology and in figure legend .
 quantitative analysis of 64cu radioactivity distribution in various protein band be give in table .
 full-size image a .
 at the leave be a coomassie blue stain gel represent the protein band and approximate molecular weight and b at right be the autoradiography represent 64cu radioactivity associate with the corresponding protein .
 lane 1 in vivo 64cu-tp3939 in mouse serum lane 2 64cu-tp3939 incubate with hsa ex vivo lane 3 64cucl2 incubate with hsa ex vivo and lane 4 64cucl2 .
 view within article .
 table .
 page analysis .
 lane llane 2lane 3lane 4 molecular weight kda 64cu-tp3939 in serum in vivo 64cu-tp3939 with hsa64cucl2 with hsa64cucl2 6 .
 full-size table .
 radioactivity and estimate molecular weight .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 annually in the usa approximately 7 million breast biopsy be perform approximately of which million find benign pathology .
 the ability to noninvasively determine the benign or malignant status of suspect breast cancer mass find by mammography may minimize the number of million of unnecessary invasive biopsy spare the patient from physical and psychological trauma as well as save health care dollar .
 although great stride have be make for imaging breast cancer use magnetic resonance mri computerized tomography ct ultrasound us and radionuclide imaging such as pet use 18f-fluorodeoxy glucose and spect use 99mtc sestamibi each modality suffer from serious limitation .
 the need be compelling to investigate improve imaging probe that might target specific biomarker and thereby contribute to a great reliability and high sensitivity and specificity for imaging malignant lesion and to exclude benign pathology .
 data be abundant that of the breast cancer cell overexpress a gene product cell surface receptor vpac1 so name because of the endogenous growth hormone vip28 and pacap27 .
 this peptide have high affinity for vpac1 receptor .
 vip28 and pacap27 bind similarly to vpac receptor .
 pacap27 have high affinity for pac1 receptor .
 however it have be demonstrate that human breast cancer cell do not overexpress either vpac2 or pac1 receptor .
 vpac1 receptor be overexpressed on malignant cell before cell morphology be alter and in high density than on the normal breast tissue cell .
 this receptor be internalised phosphorylated and be not reexpressed on the cell membrane .
 this datum render vpac1 receptor as highly useful biomarker that may be probe for noninvasive pet imaging .
 the confirmation of the presence of this fingerprint on a suspect mass will ascertain malignancy and the absence of a benign pathology .
 in this investigation we have choose 4 apparently potent peptide analogue which be synthesize characterize and derivatized for radiolabeling with 64cu to enable us to perform pet imaging .
 the purpose of this investigation be to determine a the biological characteristic of the probe be not compromise b receptor specificity and receptor binding affinity be not alter c their in vivo stability be not diminish and d that the probe bind to human breast tissue which express vpac1 receptor and that this binding be preferential as compare to normal breast tissue .
 datum strongly demonstrate that this analogue be potent and functionally stable .
 for each analogue the radiolabeling efficiency for 64cu be great than and require no far purification before the probe be inject for pet imaging .
 vip28 be a muscle relaxant .
 use the muscle relaxivity assay on the ias smooth muscle the functional study be perform which strongly indicate that the biological activity of none of the analogue be compromise .
 similarly the binding assay as perform use human breast cancer cell line t47d corroborate the datum equally affirmatively .
 the in vitro receptor autoradiography study show to time great quantity of 64cu-peptide analogue be bind to breast cancer tissue than to the normal breast tissue .
 study carry out after establish good working technique always yield ratio of and above .
 this datum indicate that great number of vpac1 receptor be express on malignant cell than on the normal .
 this datum confirm previous observation in human use 99mtc analogue and strongly suggest that this analogue have the ability to specifically localize malignant breast lesion by pet imaging .
 the datum obtain use rt-pcr confirm increase receptor expression in the tumor tissue and generally corroborate with the autoradiography datum .
 the range of receptor expression vary from 5 118 depending on the size of the tissue and abundance of malignant cell in the sample provide .
 the blood clearance datum in mouse for each analogue indicate rapid clearance supportive of early imaging .
 this clearance together with the internalization and phosphorylation of the receptor will promote diagnostic and therapeutic application of this peptide .
 certain 64cu chelate have be show to be unstable in vivo promote transchelation of 64cu to protein .
 this may hinder the in vivo application of such chelate .
 in case polyacrylamide gel analysis indicate approximately of the 64cu remain bind to the peptide 4 kda and be not transchelated to the protein in vivo .
 among the transchelated approximately be to fraction with protein molecular weight 98 kda this include a significant portion that artifactually remain in the loading well see 7 approximately to protein molecular weight 64 kda and to protein molecular weight 6 16 kda .
 approximately of the 64cu clear with t1 2 of to min .
 because of this rapid clearance of radioactivity this sample be acquire 2 3 min post administration of the labeled analogue .
 any blood draw after 3 5 min post injection contain negligible radioactivity either for count or autoradiography .
 to obtain some insight into the possibility of far transchelation to serum protein we incubate the 64cu peptide with hsa in vitro .
 this too demonstrate that of the activity be not transchelated to protein .
 this lack of transchelation be consistent with the strong chelation of 64cu to this n2 s2 chelating moiety couple to the peptide .
 the urinary excretion of the 64cu peptide analogue for 2 h post injection be negligible and prevent us from hplc confirmation of enzymatic degradation of the peptide which might have eliminate in the urine .
 consider together the lack of transchelation to serum protein and the lack of urinary excretion it be reasonable to assume that the peptide remain intact .
 this be far evidence by increase quantity of radioactivity accumulate in tumor as the time elapse after in vivo administration datum not give .
 this stability if far witness by the itlc analysis perform on urine collect from mouse give 64cu-tp3982 4 h previously which show that great than of activity be bind to the peptide .
 the assumption then be that the radioactivity that bind to other normal organ relatively large in size may be bind to vpac receptor express on the normal cell albeit at low density .
 in summary all in vitro and limited in vivo datum strongly suggest that all of the four analogue be potent biological activity be not compromise and that they be worthy of far evaluation .
 this investigation promise to lead us to evaluate utility for pet imaging of human breast cancer and for determine malignant lesion from benign one .
 acknowledgment .
 this work be support by nih grant .
 we thank juan pallazzo md and magdalena potoczek of the department of pathology for advice and assistance in the study of pathological specimen .
 approximately of all patient diagnose with breast cancer be at risk of develop tumor recurrence at some time within the course of disease .
 therefore early diagnosis and accurate restage of recurrent breast cancer be important to define appropriate therapeutic strategy or to identify patient with limited disease who potentially benefit from curative treatment .
 primary staging and follow-up of breast cancer usually be perform with multi-modality imaging approach use conventional radiograph ultrasound compute tomography ct or magnetic resonance imaging mri based on change in density size or contrast enhancement .
 however a sequential imaging approach can be time-intensive and potential false-negative finding may delay appropriate therapy .
 it have be report that whole-body fluorodeoxyglucose fdg positron emission tomography pet i of clinical value in the search for breast cancer metastases especially when suggest by the presence of clinical symptom or by a progressive increase in biochemical marker .
 the combination of metabolic datum from pet with the detail anatomical information of multi-slice compute tomography as dual-modality scanner have markedly increase lesion localization and diagnostic accuracy compare to both modality as standalone application .
 recently combine pet ct have be introduce as a whole-body imaging modality for screening of patient with suspicion of recurrent breast cancer indicate an improve restage accuracy and possible impact on therapy .
 mri with lack of ionize radiation high soft tissue contrast and spatial resolution be a useful application for tumor detection and stage of malignant disease .
 a high sensitivity have be report for the detection of organ metastases especially for tumor frequently metastasizing to the liver bone or the brain like breast cancer .
 however different requirement in coil setup sequence design and slice position as well as time-consuming patient repositioning procedure in the past have delay the realization of wb-mri as a clinical application .
 with the introduction of multi-channel whole-body scanner cover the patient 's anatomy from head to toe mri have become a promising candidate for whole-body body tumor imaging .
 now dedicate assessment of individual organ with various soft tissue contrast image orientation spatial resolution and contrast medium dynamic can be combine with whole-body anatomic coverage .
 recently approve clinical multi-channel whole-body mr system with a field strength of 3 t become available .
 the potential two-fold gain in snr at 3 t can be use for either acquisition acceleration or increase spatial resolution or for a compromise of both result in even short total examination time increase patient comfort and acceptance .
 various study group have report an improve diagnostic accuracy and image quality at 3 t for different dedicate organ system like functional or morphologic imaging of the brain vessel and define musculoskeletal structure .
 yet only few scientific study have describe the use of high-field system in other part of the body include the chest abdomen or even as whole-body application .
 the purpose of this study be to compare the diagnostic potential of fdg pet ct and wb-mri in patient with breast cancer and suspicion of tumor recurrence .
 additionally wb-mri at high field condition be introduce as a new feasible application within a clinical setting .
 material and method .
 the study include 33 female patient mean age 55 year range 24 79 year with a history of breast cancer all treat with a primarily curative approach .
 the patient be referred to hospital within a time period of 22 month for follow-up with either clinical suspicion of tumor recurrence n 9 a conspicuous finding in another imaging modality n 14 or newly elevate tumor marker level n .
 all patient be examine consecutively with a dual-modality pet ct-scanner gemini philip medical system cleveland ohio within the diagnostic algorithm of clinical routine .
 the patient also undergo wb-mri at or 3 t within a maximum of 16 day average 12 day .
 mri be perform in agreement with the patient as well as the clinician in charge .
 approval of the institutional review board and write patient consent be obtain beforehand .
 both pet ct and wb-mri irrespective of the apply field strength be well tolerate by all patient .
 to avoid bias in diagnostic accuracy of pet ct due to suppress metabolic activity patient receive chemotherapy radiotherapy immediately prior or in between examination be exclude from statistical analysis .
 table .
 overview on selection criterion for 33 patient include for a whole-body imaging aftercare algorithm .
 patient selection criterion for whole-body imaging algorithm wb-mri and pet ct clinical symptomsn 9new bone pain n 5 abdominal pain and or pathologic liver enzyme n 2 pathologic fracture n 2 elevated tumor marker levelsn n 2 15 3 n 3 cea 15 3 n 5 suspicious imaging findingn 14chest radiograph n 4 abdominal ultrasound n 7 ct-staging after ultrasound n 3 full-size table .
 view within article .
 whole-body mri at t in 23 patient wb-mri be perform on a t mt min slew rate t s whole-body scanner magnetom avanto siemens medical solution erlangen germany use integrate parallel acquisition technique ipat .
 the scanner allow the connection of up to 76 receiver coil element from multiple phased-array surface coil cover the patient from head to toe with simultaneous signal reception from 32 independent receiver channel .
 use automate table motion parallel imaging in three spatial direction at a total scan range of cm can be perform without patient repositioning .
 the patient be examine from head to the proximal calf with stir-sequence on four body level in coronal orientation head neck pelvis thigh calf tr te 92 as well as the thorax abdomen tr te in breath-hold technique with prospective 2d-navigator correction pace prospective acquisition correction .
 subsequently the body be scan with coronal t1-weighted tse-imaging tr 79 te 12 thorax abdomen tr te breath-hold technique .
 the lung be examine in axial orientation with stir- tr te and haste-sequences tr te 27 follow by a respiratory-triggered t2w-fat saturated-tse scan of the liver tr te and coronal haste of the abdomen tr 73 .
 then sagittal imaging of the upper and low spine with t1-weighted-tse- tr 849 te11 and stir-sequence tr te 59 be perform .
 after application of gadolinium-dtpa magnevist bayer schering pharma ag berlin germany 3 ml s mmol kg ml saline flushing a dynamic arterial- portal venous- late venous phase axial 3d-vibe volume interpolate breath-hold exam liver scan be accomplish tr te include a late venous scan of the breast lung level tr te .
 then axial t1w- and t2w-tse-imaging tr 635 te 17 and tr te of the brain be perform .
 finally a fat saturate t1w-gre-sequence of the whole abdomen in axial orientation tr 179 te be perform .
 table 2 give an overview of the apply scan protocol .
 table .
 whole-body mri sequence protocol on and 3 t sequenceimage t3 t matrix resolution mm3 acquisition time min matrix resolution mm3 acquisition time min stir-wbcoronal384 haste-abdomencoronal384 t2w-fs-se-liver free breathing t1w tse-wbacoronal384 t1w tse-spinesagittal384 stir-spinesagittal384 dyn .
 vibe-liveraxial384 stat .
 t1w f t1w t1w gre-braincaxial t2w se-brainaxial512 .
 .
 full-size table .
 a at 3 t alternatively a se-sequence be apply for coronal imaging of the head neck region .
 b at 3 t the 3d-vibe of the breast in late venous phase be perform with extend anatomic coverage of the entire lung to replace axial stir-imaging of the lung .
 c at 3 t t1-weighted axial imaging of the brain be perform with a flash-2d gradient echo sequence .
 view within article .
 for coronal whole-body imaging a pat-factor of 3 be use except for the calf station pat-factor 2 for sagittal imaging of the spine pat 2 be apply .
 for axial imaging of the thorax and abdomen a pat-factor of 2 be also choose .
 whole-body mri at 3 t in patient wb-mri be perform on a 3 t mt min slew rate t s whole-body scanner magnetom tim trio siemens medical solution erlangen germany use ipat .
 within migration of the describe establish protocol at t to high-field condition adaptation of scan parameter to the different field strength be perform .
 no far adjustment or optimization such as spatial resolution be make to preserve comparability of the two protocol see table 2 .
 coronal stir-imaging be perform on the same four body level tr te thorax abdomen tr te 117 follow by haste of the lung tr 531 te 33 and abdomen tr te 111 include the t2-weighted tse scan of the liver tr te 81 .
 due to change relaxation time for stir-imaging ti be increase to m compare to t ti to achieve an adequate fat suppress bone marrow signal .
 wb-mri with t1-weighted contrast comprise coronal tse-imaging of the same body level tr te and tr te .
 only for the head neck region se-imaging tr te 9 be use to achieve adequate image contrast and detail for brain parenchyma and the complex soft tissue structure of the neck shoulder .
 then sagittal stir- tr te 52 and t1-weighted tse sequence tr te 12 of the spine be perform .
 due to increased sar at 3 t a pulse technique with variable rate selective excitation verse be select for t1-weighted-tse- and stir-imaging .
 the use of verse allow substantial sar reduction without significant increase of tr and at negligible change of image contrast .
 in contrast to the t protocol a t1-weighted flash-2d gre sequence tr 471 te replace the axial t1w-se-sequence as an already establish t1-w brain imaging of choice with high cnr and robust image quality at high field strength .
 contrast enhance imaging be perform use a dynamic 3d-vibe of the liver tr te and a late venous scan of the lung breast tr te .
 the same fat saturate gre-sequence be perform on the abdomen pelvis tr 189 te .
 the same pat-factor be use at 3 additionally a dielectric pad be place on patient with low body fat to avoid dielectric artifact .
 axial stir-imaging of the lung be not perform at 3 t due to severe impairment of image quality from pulsation artifact .
 fdg pet ct imaging .
 examination be perform on a two-detector row pet ct-scanner gemini philip medical system cleveland ohio after injection of 378 mbq 18f -fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose .
 patient be ask to fast for at least 6 h before examination to assure blood glucose level below mg dl .
 buscopan be apply intravenously to avoid a first-pass uptake of fdg into smooth muscle .
 additionally mg of furosemide be give to increase renal excretion of the tracer and avoid accumulation in non-malignant cell .
 1 h after fdg-administration a low-dose ct scan in shallow breathing be perform for pet-attenuation correction cover neck thorax abdomen and pelvis ma kv collimation 2 mm 5 mm pitch .
 then the emission scan follow use a 3d-ramla row action maximum likelihood algorithm for reconstruction bed position fov cm 144144 matrix .
 finally a diagnostic contrast-enhanced ct be conduct ma kv collimation 2 mm 5 mm pitch 1 with application of ml of agent ultravist bayer schering pharma ag berlin germany in venous phase s delay .
 the pet- and diagnostic ct-data be fuse with the use of special software syntegra philip medical system cleveland ohio usa .
 for the whole examination an average dose of ionize radiation of 25 msv have be calculate .
 table 3 give an overview of the apply scan protocol .
 table .
 whole-body protocol for fdg pet ct imaging on a two-detector row scanner use a low-dose ct pre-scan for attenuation correction .
 whole-body fdg pet ct protocol patient preparationlow-dose ctemission scandiagnostic ct fasting 6 h before ma kv ramla-3d ma kv mbq fdg collimation 2 mm 5 mm matrix 144144 collimation 2 mm 5 mm mg furosemide 12-bed position pitch mg butylscopolamine cm fov ml lopromide s delay .
 minscan time 43 min .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 data analysis .
 two board-certified radiologist each with much than 6 year of experience read the mri scan and another radiologist and one nuclear medicine physician with 3 and 6 year of experience read the pet ct image each in consensus .
 both reader group be fully blind to the other modality and have no information on previous or current diagnostic imaging result .
 location extension and number of suspect malignant lesion be record .
 established region-specific size criterion be apply to determine tumor involvement when assess lymph .
 hard criterion for malignancy in both modality be sign of aggressive expansion of a lesion like ill-defined border erosion or infiltration of neighboring anatomical structure hemorrhage or sign of necrosis .
 in mri malignancy be determine based on establish sequence-specific signal change a hypointense bone marrow signal in t1-weighted imaging in combination with a hyperintense signal in stir in case of bone lesion .
 furthermore classic finding of abnormal static ct or dynamic mri contrast uptake characteristic be consult like an early ring enhancement in case of a malignant liver lesion .
 in addition malignancy in pet ct be define by a focally increase glucose uptake use a standard uptake value suvmax of as a reference indicate malignancy .
 a progressive change in size and number of a lesion within the give time period or an increase of pathological tracer uptake be consider as hard criterion for malignancy .
 focal mass be count lesion-by-lesion and in case of present diffuse infiltration pattern especially in metastatic disease to the bone an evaluation system of anatomical region be apply .
 lesion be count by the bone region affect diffuse infiltration of one femur 1 diffuse infiltration of both clavicle 2 .
 in case of disseminate metastatic disease to the liver or lung define as much than five countable metastases the degree of metastatic spread be describe by the affect lung lobe and liver segment respectively disseminate metastatic disease in all lung lobe 5 in all liver segment 8 .
 all detect lesion include all questionable or discordant finding between both modality be cross-checked by radiological or nuclear medicine follow-up study within at least 6 month average 14 month 6 37 month as a standard of reference .
 the follow study be perform for follow-up on a patient-basis mammography n 3 breast ultrasound n 3 mri n 14 pet ct n 12 ct n 12 bone scintigraphy n radiograph n 9 wb-mri n 6 abdominal ultrasound n 5 .
 in case of a suppose local recurrent tumor find histological clarification be achieve .
 statistical analysis .
 to assess the diagnostic accuracy of both modality sensitivity specificity as well as positive- and negative predictive value be calculate for the describe lesion .
 concordance for the assessment between mri and pet ct-imaging be calculate .
 statistical analysis be perform with spss for windows version spss chicago illinois .
 result .
 tumor recurrence be find in of 33 patient .
 altogether pet ct and wb-mri detect 186 lesion classify as malignant and 77 lesion consider benign .
 thirteen patient have no visible malignant pathology and also be negative on follow-up examination .
 the correlation between both modality be 228 263 for all detect lesion .
 the describe lesion be observe within the common fov of both modality from the skull base to the proximal femoral bone .
 all 36 discordant finding be unequivocally classify by follow-up examination .
 fdg pet ct show an overall diagnostic accuracy of 239 263 with a sensitivity of 186 and a specificity of 69 77 .
 wb-mri altogether achieve an equal overall diagnostic accuracy of 238 263 with a sensitivity of 172 186 and specificity of 66 77 .
 in two patient tumor recurrence of the breast be detect by both wb-mri and pet ct one local recurrence and one recurrence in the contra-lateral breast .
 one patient be rate as a false-positive for local recurrence by wb-mri t .
 no sign of tumor recurrence be find on pet ct and 6 month follow-up in this patient .
 full-size image forty-five-year-old woman with breast cancer and suspicion of tumor recurrence in breast radiograph ultrasound during routine a coronal wb-stir-imaging on four body level at t show a large hyperintense bone marrow lesion indicate a metastasis of the right proximal femur arrow .
 b 3d-vibe in late venous phase at the anatomic level of the breast show an enhance mass in the right breast suspicious of contralateral tumor recurrence .
 additionally a large sternal bone metastasis be depict arrowhead .
 c pet ct of the thorax reveal pathologic fdg-uptake in the right breast lesion suv as well as the sternal mass indicate malignancy .
 bilateral uptake in the facet joint i of degenerative d breast ultrasound correlation confirm an ill-defined hypoechogenic lesion 18 mm diagnose as tumor recurrence of invasive-ductal carcinoma .
 view within article .
 pet ct detect 21 lymph node metastases with a sensitivity of 21 22 and equal specificity of 25 26 at a diagnostic accuracy of 46 48 .
 wb-mri reveal 16 malignant lymph node with a sensitivity of 16 22 yield a specificity of 26 and a diagnostic accuracy of 36 48 .
 pet ct detect much lymph node metastases than wb-mri especially in the axilla and mediastinal region both pet ct n 7 versus wb-mri n 5 table 4 2 .
 table .
 summary of detect malignant lesion detect by mri and pet ct and anatomical distribution .
 detected malignanciespet ctwb-mri local recurrence22 .
 malignant lymph node2116 axillary75 mediastinal75 thoracic43 other33 .
 distant metastases147154 bone6369 lung1515 .
 .
 full-size table .
 overall 186 malignant focus be detect by both modality with a correlation of .
 view within article .
 full-size image twenty-four-year-old woman with breast cancer and elevate tumor a t1-weighted wb-mri at b axial stir-imaging of the lung show a round hyperintense structure in the upper ventral mediastinum which be indicative of a lymph node but difficult to distinguish from a vessel or pulsation artifact .
 another hyperintense structure in the pre-tracheal region be hardly interpretable arrow .
 c contrast-enhanced ct show two lymph node at the describe site with borderline size cm arrow .
 d pet ct reveal a pathologic tracer uptake only in the ventral lymph node suv the pretracheal node show no significant uptake .
 progressive multifocal metastatic disease with secondary lymphedema of the trunk and arm as well as additional brain metastases be diagnose in this patient in follow-up .
 view within article .
 for the detection of distant metastatic disease pet ct demonstrate a sensitivity of 147 162 and specificity of 43 with a diagnostic accuracy of 212 .
 wb-mri show a sensitivity of 154 162 and specificity of 46 at a diagnostic accuracy of 212 .
 wb-mri reveal much metastases of the bone wb-mri n 69 versus pet ct n 63 liver n versus n 67 3 and 5 and show an even performance for the detection of lung metastases both n 15 table 4 .
 on a patient-basis wb-mri t be false-positive in one patient indicate a focal bone metastasis not confirm by follow-up .
 full-size image 86k forty-year-old woman with increase liver enzyme and suspicious mass in abdominal a whole-body pet ct show a focal liver metastasis with increase b 3d-vibe-mri t of the liver in portal venous phase confirm a large liver metastasis and show additional multiple small satellite c another focal liver metastasis 8 mm be find in a different liver segment arrow .
 d only the large metastasis show fdg-uptake in pet ct the small satellite lesion be mask by physiological background uptake of the e the lesion describe in a different liver segment by mri be not visualize by contrast-enhanced f follow-up ct-imaging after 6 month reveal morphological increase of the lesion despite chemotherapy .
 view within article .
 consider the full field of view of a wb-mri examination cover the body from head to the calf a total of 11 additional focal malignant focus be find in five patient .
 nine previously unknown brain metastases be describe in four patient and two bone metastases in the distal femur in one patient .
 in another patient pathologic meningeal contrast uptake be describe and confirm as meningeosis carcinomatosa .
 full-size image fifty-six-year-old woman with breast cancer and newly occur neurological a wb-mri with t1-weighted tse-sequence at 3 t with high contrast display of bone- soft tissue and abdominal structure .
 no substantial artifact especially in the thorax or abdomen be observe .
 axial t1-weighted gre-imaging of the brain post contrast show well-defined multifocal small brain metastases in the medulla right cerebellum b arrow and pons c arrow .
 in another 56-year-old patient pre- and post contrast mri of the brain show pathologic meningeal contrast uptake indicate meningeosis carcinomatosa d and e arrow .
 view within article .
 full-size image 114k wb-mri at 3 t of a 69-year-old woman with breast cancer and newly occur bone pain as well as elevate liver a t1-weighted tse-imaging of the spine show small bone metastases down to 3 mm size arrow in multiple lumbar vertebral b and c high contrast stir-sequence and contrast-enhanced fat saturate gre-imaging depict a large metastasis of the fourth dorsal lumbar body with infiltration into the right arch facet joint and paravertebral soft d corresponding pet ct show a pathologic e much small bone metastases be find at the right iliosacral joint and leave iliac bone arrow .
 f only the large metastasis show a visible osteolytic defect in ms-ct arrow .
 g and h t2-weighted respiratory-triggered imaging of the liver and thin-slice 3d-vibe additionally reveal a liver metastasis in the right liver lobe at high resolution with a typical late venous-phase ring enhancement .
 view within article .
 examination time for pet ct be min min patient preparation scan time 43 min .
 total acquisition time for wb-mri at t be min mean room time be min .
 at 3 t total acquisition time for wb-mri be reduce to min at identical image resolution .
 adding the time for axial stir-imaging of the lung additionally perform at t min overall scan time at 3 t be reduce by min .
 mean room time be 51 min .
 discussion .
 the basic imaging approach in the follow-up of breast cancer support by the german cancer society to date consist of regular mammography and clinical examination as well as symptom-orientated multi-modal imaging strategy .
 this procedure by large be based on the assumption from study perform in the early that an intensify after-care do not necessarily correlate with an increase survival benefit .
 unfortunately this approach mainly comprise modality with know poor sensitivity chest radiograph examination with strong examiner-dependent variation of sensitivity abdominal ultrasound or procedure with limited specificity like bone scintigraphy .
 especially in the last year numerous promising concept have be develop for the therapy of metastasized breast cancer include hormonal drug and immune therapy which indicate an improvement in patient progression-free survival .
 new surgical and interventional technique for the management of unifocal metastases have demonstrate effectiveness of local therapeutic approach and report promising survival rate .
 against this background whole-body imaging modality such as pet ct or whole-body mri appear as new promising tool to detect tumor recurrence with high accuracy in initial stage and provide much effective therapeutic strategy to the patient .
 in this study we find a high prevalence of recurrent disease and both fdg pet ct and wb-mri show a persuasive overall diagnostic accuracy each for lesion-by-lesion detection of tumor recurrence .
 previous study have describe the efficacy of both pet ct and wb-mri for cancer restage yet in much case heterogeneous tumor cohort be analyzed and recent study on breast cancer restage strategy only exist for pet ct .
 radan et examine 46 woman with a history of breast cancer and elevate tumor marker with fdg pet ct for follow-up .
 they report a similarly high tumor recurrence in of patient and an accuracy of be observe for pet ct .
 a different group have describe an even well performance for pet ct with a diagnostic accuracy of .
 however the patient history in this study be rather heterogeneous consist of woman referred for primary staging restage as well as evaluation of treatment response which limit result interpretation .
 in contrast in study a much homogeneous group of patient with an increase likelihood for tumor recurrence be analyzed compose either of increase breast cancer marker level cea 15 3 newly occur clinical symptom indicate recurrence or a suspicious finding within multi-modal aftercare .
 this may also explain the high tumor prevalence find in cohort .
 so far only few study exist which directly compare pet ct with wb-mri concept for tumor restage and none have focused on breast cancer patient alone .
 still the equally high diagnostic accuracy observe for both modality in this subgroup of breast cancer patient correlate well with result from previous study perform on a t whole-body scanner for stage of different primary tumor with a comparable imaging concept and protocol .
 in this initial report on 37 patient we analyzed a total of 395 lesion result in an overall lesion-by-lesion accuracy of for wb-mri and for pet ct when calculate in retrospective with the give datum .
 current finding for wb-mri and pet ct with regard to overall diagnostic accuracy each be balanced and similar to the observation make in the pilot study mention above yet with a tendency for slightly well performance of both modality .
 probably the heterogeneous tumor cohort of the initial analysis with variation in biological nature of tumor as well as contrast- and tracer uptake characteristic may have be an influence factor .
 on a patient-by-patient basis one false-positive finding of local breast tumor recurrence be describe by wb-mri at t in an otherwise healthy patient .
 a round enhance mass adjacent to scar tissue be describe in wb-mri but show no tracer uptake in pet ct and be inconspicuous on follow-up .
 certainly a time-effective and clinically feasible wb-mri approach as present with protocol and setup with supine position of the patient make it impossible to imply state-of the-art dedicate mri of the breast and the lack of multi-phase contrast imaging and adequate breast compression in a wb-mri concept impair diagnostic accuracy for local tumor recurrence .
 furthermore the anatomic metabolic information provide by a fdg pet ct scan i of advantage when interpret a focal breast mass and it far enhance diagnostic accuracy of ct datum alone otherwise suffer from low soft tissue contrast in the breast .
 the use of additional metabolic information in pet ct become much apparent when analyzing result for lymph node detection of study .
 pet ct n 21 detect much lymph node metastases than wb-mri n 16 at a high diagnostic accuracy versus .
 especially in typical anatomical region of lymphogenic metastatic dissemination of breast cancer like the mediastinum or along the internal mammarian artery image quality may be affect by pulsation- or susceptibility artifact in mri which potentially may be worsen at high-field condition .
 additionally small lymph node harboring micrometastases may impair diagnostic sensitivity of imaging based on morphological criterion alone .
 in a recently publish study introduce wb-mri and ms-ct for the staging of lymphoma the lack of sensitivity for the detection of small lymph node metastases 12 mm become evident with a report decline of sensitivity for wb-mri from down to .
 compare wb-mri and pet ct in a pilot study for tnm-staging of 98 patient with various primary tumor and observe a superior diagnostic accuracy of with fdg pet ct compare to with wb-mri for the assessment of correct n-stage comparable to the observation make in study .
 several concept be presently develop to enhance diagnostic accuracy for malignant lymph node detection .
 stir-epi-diffusion-sequences with adequate fat suppression dwibs have prove to be promising for an enhance display of pathologic lymph node at high resolution .
 recently have show feasibility of this technique as a whole-body application under high-field condition with diagnostic image quality .
 they describe a good correlation for lymph node metastases as depict by dwibs and those visualize by fdg pet .
 other author have use the calculation of signal intensity ratio from tse-stir-images compare to a saline phantom and have report excellent result for the detection of lymph node metastases in lung cancer .
 due to excellent contrast in soft tissue and parenchymal structure the main performance of wb-mri certainly lie within the detection of distant metastatic disease especially in abdominal organ the brain and bone which represent frequent route of metastasis in breast cancer .
 although both modality perform very reliable for the detection of organ metastases wb-mri show a high diagnostic accuracy of versus for pet ct .
 a similar trend have be report in the previously describe initial study for tumor stage perform by group on a t whole-body scanner yield an even low performance for pet ct with an accuracy of only compare to for wb-mri .
 in the current study advantage especially for the detection of bone- n versus n 67 and liver metastases n versus n 67 be find similar to observation make by for this site .
 the combination of non-contrasted t1-weighted-tse- and fat suppress stir-imaging as use in present protocol have prove to be much accurate for the detection of malignant bone marrow disorder and an excellent negative- and positive-predictive value especially for stir-sequence have be describe in literature .
 recently a study be perform with wb-mri for bone marrow screening at t compare to fdg pet ct use the same total body matrix coil concept and resolution parameter .
 within this study a significantly high diagnostic accuracy versus be confirm for wb-mri mainly due to a significantly high sensitivity of wb-mri .
 sensitivity of pet ct can be impair for small bone lesion show no visible morphologic change in ct or significant tracer uptake especially for lesion below double the size of the spatial resolution of the pet-scanner which usually be 6 mm .
 in the mention study indeed much small lesion 5 mm be detect by wb-mri .
 however it have to be state that first generation dual-slice pet ct scanner as use in this study and in the current analysis today have largely be upgrade with 16-slice-ct-components or much which have significantly increase imaging performance and diagnostic potential due to enhance resolution and high-quality multi-planar reconstruction .
 as a result diagnostic accuracy for small size lesion in organ with low soft tissue contrast or high density like the liver and bone be expect to increase .
 an excellent depiction of liver pathology have be report for multi-phase contrast enhance 3d-gre-sequences of the abdomen vibe and a well performance especially for small-sized lesion compare to fdg pet ct .
 wb-mri and fdg pet ct show an even performance for the detection of lung metastases both n 15 .
 this may be an effect of the implementation of fast haste-imaging with pat which have prove to be highly efficient for the detection of small lung pathology .
 an important benefit of pat be the significant reduction of blur and increase sharpness of the image when single shot pulse sequence be use .
 at the same time the length of echo train be reduce in tissue with high t2-decay thus avoid a loss of signal-to-noise ratio .
 fink et al have report the technical feasibility of high-resolution lung mri at 3 t and observe neither substantially different image characteristic nor significantly increase artifact at high field condition .
 the high cnr for nodule be find for vibe and cnr for infiltrate for haste of the lung .
 both sequence be implement into protocol and indeed image in all patient examine at 3 t be fully diagnostic without noticeable impairment through artifact .
 wb-mri with larger anatomical coverage compare to pet ct skull base to proximal femur reveal additional finding of prognostic importance .
 previously unknown brain metastases be describe in four patient and meningeosis be detect in another patient .
 due to the high fdg-uptake of the cns in the pet scan cerebral pathology can easily be miss in an fdg pet ct exam when the whole-body protocol be use .
 the fact that cerebral metastases be image with high resolution in wb-mri be a clear advantage especially in tumor that frequently spread to the cns like breast cancer .
 schlemmer et have report similar finding with a comparable protocol on the same multi-channel mr scanner at a considerable number of additional diagnosis include previously unknown cerebral tumor spread and soft tissue metastases be make compare to ms-ct as the standard staging method .
 this lead to a change of therapy in 6 of 63 patient .
 propose protocol show that pat enable flexible state-of-the-art imaging protocol with various soft tissue contrast image orientation spatial resolution and contrast medium dynamic within a clinically feasible examination time .
 total scan time for wb-mri at t be min and exam be tolerate well by all patient .
 making use of the increase snr and keep identical resolution parameter total scan time even be far reduce at 3 t down to min and no sar-related patient discomfort be report thus introduce wb-mri as an effective application for high field condition .
 several modification on image parameter describe in the method section have to be perform to adapt the wb-mri concept to high field condition .
 in a preclinical step of platform migration study group analyzed image quality criterion and artifact between and 3 t for the propose protocol on 15 healthy volunteer use the same sequence- and resolution parameter .
 result show a comparably good performance on both scanner with only slightly increase artifact at 3 t without significantly restrain influence on image quality .
 the fact that on a patient-by-patient basis no difference for detection of tumor recurrence be find between wb-mri at 3 t and pet ct be an indicator of successful introduction of platform migration into a clinical setting .
 a limit aspect of this study be that unchanged resolution parameter for wb-mri in order to trade snr for far scan time reduction do not allow to analyze effect of an enhance spatial resolution at 3 t on diagnostic accuracy .
 especially comparison of lesion-based diagnostic performance between both scanner be not possible due to unbalanced sample number and differ patient subgroup which be not match for lesion type and -occurrence .
 furthermore the lack of a histological proof as a true gold standard for the detect lesion and verification based on radiological follow-up alone represent another limit aspect .
 with a reference standard based on imaging alone false-negative may arise in small or slowly grow lesion in absence of significant morphological change .
 on the other hand comparable to numerous study of similar design obtain multiple biopsy for tissue verification would have be impracticable and ethically unacceptable .
 altogether it be important to take in account that diagnostic accuracy of both imaging modality can be considerably influence by several condition .
 on one hand fdg-uptake be susceptible to chemotherapy on the other hand avital lesion after successful chemotherapy can remain virtually unchanged in morphology or signal on mri .
 to minimize bias we exclude all patient which have prior systemic chemotherapy or in between both examination .
 in summary the robust performance of wb-mri and pet ct may significantly improve diagnostic accuracy in breast cancer patient with suspicion of tumor recurrence and represent a promising alternative to multi-modality algorithm .
 as a consequence patient might benefit from early and much accurate tumor detection and improve therapeutic option .
 although pet ct have advantage in the assessment of local tumor recurrence and lymph node detection high-resolution wb-mri scanner with the use of pat show an excellent performance for the detection of distant metastatic disease .
 finally wb-mri under high field condition be clinically feasible with reduce examination time .
 whether trading of snr for far resolution enhancement at 3 t will have an impact on diagnostic accuracy have yet to be determine .
 almost of woman with breast cancer be diagnose before the age of and of woman with breast cancer be diagnose before the age of cheng tsou liu jian .
 on the average the woman diagnose with breast cancer in taiwan be young than those in the us .
 some recognize factor will increase the risk of breast cancer however the cause be still unknown .
 hence it be difficult for medical professional to treat breast cancer with the appropriate preventive method .
 yu rohan cook howe and miller 1992 investigate the risk factor for fibroadenoma in a case-control study involve 117 fibroadenoma case in australia .
 this study show that fibroadenoma share some risk factor with breast cancer .
 it be estimate that dna virus which emerge as major causal factor contribute to the occurrence of human cancer dimmock primrose 1994 .
 dna virus as cause be closely relate to the human cancer as part of the high-risk factor .
 this dna virus include specific type of hsv-1 herpes simplex virus type 1 ebv epstein-barr virus cmv cytomegalovirus hpv human papillomavirus and hhv-8 human herpesvirus-8 dimmock primrose 1994 .
 study biological purging of breast cancer cell use an attenuate replication-competent hsv-1 in human hematopoietic stem cell transplantation .
 develop a second generation of genetically modify hsv-1 with paclitaxel in the treatment of breast cancer in vitro .
 wang and vos study a hybrid herpesvirus infectious vector based on hsv-1 and ebv for gene transfer to human cell in vitro and in vivo .
 in other study indicate that the ebv hybridoma technique offer several advantage over the other hybridoma system for generate anti-breast cancer human monoclonal antibody .
 establish a breast-m and an ebv-infected b-cell line hairy-bm from breast tumor tissue .
 also yip hawkins clark and ward 1997 use the ebv-transformed peripheral blood mononuclear cell from individual with breast cancer for the construction of human immunoglobulin gene library .
 study the frequency and genome load of ebv in breast cancer from various geographical area .
 recently demonstrate ebv in carcinoma of the breast lung and other site .
 xue lampert haldane bridger and griffin also study the ebv gene in human breast cancer .
 then huang chen hutt-fletcher ambinder and hayward suggest that sporadic lytic ebv infection might contribute to polymerase chain reaction based pcr-based detection of ebv in traditionally non-virally associate epithelial malignancy .
 in addition ribeiro-silva ramalho garcia and zucoloto study whether there be a relationship between latent infection with ebv and p53 and p63 expression in breast carcinoma .
 lastly compare the radiation response in ebv cell line derived from breast cancer patient with or without a brca1 mutation and reveal no significant difference .
 in the previous study of cmv for breast cancer study a group of 17 patient who have undergo modify radical mastectomy for breast cancer .
 lee reimer oh campbell and schnitzer 1998 find that the caveolin expression be significantly reduce in human breast cancer cell provide that the caveolin cdna link to the cmv promoter be transfected into human mammary cancer cell .
 still hamilton vince wolfman and cowell 1999 indicate that the constitutive expression of the gene under the control of cmv promoter in mouse fibroblast result in cellular transformation and anchorage-independent growth .
 analyzed the impact of high-dose chemotherapy on antigen-specific t cell responsive to cmv immunity in breast cancer patient .
 akbulut zhang tang and deisseroth study the cytotoxic effect of replication-competent adenoviral vector carry l-plastin promoter regulate e1a and cytosine deaminase gene on cancer of breast ovary and colon .
 a similar vector drive by the cmv promoter have also be construct as a control .
 this treatment result in decrease tumor size and decrease tumor cell growth rate .
 demonstrate that the inhibition of the pkb-dependent survival pathway promote apoptosis and thermosensitization in malignant breast cancer cell with relative spare of normal counterpart .
 show that cxcr4 have a low expression of luciferase compare to that of the cmv promoter in mouse live in vivo .
 the cxcr4 be prove to be a good candidate as a tissue-specific promoter for cancer gene therapy for melanoma and breast cancer .
 recent study have reveal a possible role for hpv in the pathogenesis of breast cancer although no definitive interaction be observe between type of oral contraceptive or with any recognize risk factor for breast cancer .
 oral contraceptive may act as a promoter for hpv-induced carcinogenesis la vecchia tavani franceschi parazzini 1996 .
 demonstrate a high frequency of abnormality of this gene in human breast cancer .
 they find that there be no genomic deletion or rearrangement in spite of the presence of abnormal transcript and no definite relationship between the abnormal transcript and hpv infection .
 show that 6 out of 17 type of breast cancer be identify as be hpv positive in the pcr dot blot analysis with both the hpv e6-e7 and l1 primer set .
 widschwendter brunhuber wiedemair mueller-holzner and marth suggest that hpv dna might be transport from the original site of infection to the breast tissue by the bloodstream and that it possibly exist in the carcinogenesis of breast neoplasia in some patient .
 finally the research for hhv-8 and breast cancer have few citation in the literature .
 klein and klein study the surveillance against tumor .
 hhv-8 be a relevant viral agent in this context .
 andres find that kaposi 's sarcoma have a high incidence in the renal-transplanted population and that it be relate to hhv-8 .
 from the literature review it can be see that it be important to evaluate the association among dna virus hsv-1 ebv cmv hpv and hhv-8 with breast cancer and fibroadenoma .
 in order to obtain the relationship between dna virus and breast tumor this paper use the support vector machine svm to find the pertinent bioinformatics .
 support vector machine be first suggest by vapnik 1995 and have recently be use in a range of problem include pattern recognition pontil verri 1998 bioinformatics yu ostrouchov geist samatova text categorization and cancer diagnosis lee and lee lee et and liu et .
 when use svm two problem be confront how to choose the optimal input feature subset for svm and how to set the good kernel parameter .
 this two problem be crucial because the feature subset choice influence the appropriate kernel parameter and vice versa frhlich chapelle .
 feature selection be an important issue in building classification system .
 it be advantageous to limit the number of input feature in a classifier in order to have a good predictive and little computationally intensive model .
 with a small feature set the explanation of rationale for the classification decision can be much readily realize .
 in addition to the feature selection proper model parameter set can improve the svm classification accuracy .
 the parameter that should be optimized include penalty parameter c and the kernel function parameter such as the gamma for the radial basis function rbf kernel .
 to design a svm one must choose a kernel function set the kernel parameter and determine a soft margin constant the grid algorithm be an alternative to find the good c and gamma when use the rbf kernel function hsu lin .
 to explore five dna virus hsv-1 ebv cmv hpv and hhv-8 affect the breast tumor diagnose by use support vector machine this study try grid search to find the good svm model parameter and use f-score calculation to select input feature .
 this paper be organize as follow .
 section 2 describe basic svm concept .
 section 3 describe three svm-based strategy use in this research .
 section 4 present the experimental result from use the propose method to diagnose the real world breast cancer datum set .
 section 5 give remark and provide a conclusion .
 basic concept of svm classifier .
 in this section we will briefly describe the basic svm concept for typical two-class classification problem .
 this concept can also be find in kecman scholkopf and smola and cristianini and shawe-taylor .
 give a training set of instance-label pair xi yi i 1 2 m where xi rn and yi svm find an optimal separate hyperplane with the maximum margin by solve the follow optimization problem 1 it be know that to solve this quadratic optimization problem one must find the saddle point of the lagrange function 2 where the i denote lagrange multipliers hence i the search for an optimal saddle point be necessary because the lp must be minimize with respect to the primal variable w and b and maximize with respect to the non-negative dual variable i .
 by differentiate with respect to w and b and introduce the karush kuhn tucker kkt condition for the optimum constrain function then be transform to the dual lagrangian ld 3 to find the optimal hyperplane a dual lagrangian ld must be maximize with respect to non-negative i .
 the solution i for the dual optimization problem determine the parameter w and b of the optimal hyperplane .
 thus the optimal hyperplane decision function f x sgn w x b can be write as .
 4 in a typical classification task only a small subset of the lagrange multipliers i usually tend to be great than zero .
 geometrically this vector be the close to the optimal hyperplane .
 the respective training vector have non-zero i be call support vector as the optimal decision hyperplane f x b depend on them exclusively .
 the above concept can also be extend to the non-separable case linear generalized svm .
 in term of this slack variable the problem of find the hyperplane that provide the minimum number of training error to keep the constraint violation as small as possible have the formal expression as follow 5 where c be a penalty parameter on the training error and i be the non-negative slack variable .
 svm find the hyperplane that provide the minimum number of training error to keep the constraint violation as small as possible .
 this optimization model can be solve use the lagrangian method which be almost equivalent to the method for solve the optimization problem in the separable case .
 one must maximize the dual variable lagrangian 6 to find the optimal hyperplane a dual lagrangian ld must be maximize with respect to non-negative i under the constraint and i the penalty parameter c which be now the upper bind on i be determine by the user .
 finally the form of optimal hyperplane decision function be the same as 4 .
 the nonlinear svm map the training sample from the input space into a higher-dimensional feature space via a mapping function .
 the kernel function k xi xj define an inner product as k xi xj xi xj .
 in the dual lagrange 6 the inner product be replace by the kernel function and the nonlinear svm dual lagrangian ld 7 be similar with that in the linear generalized case .
 7 followed by the step describe in the linear generalized case we obtain the decision function of the follow form 8 the kernel function we explore in experiment be the radial basis function rbf which be define by 9 .
 9 k experiment and .
 data collection and datum partition .
 the source of datum point tissue sample include 52 specimen of non-familial invasive ductal breast cancer from woman and 28 mammary fibroadenoma be the chung-shan medical university hospital .
 after use pcr and southern hybridization to screen for the presence of -globin it be discover that the specimen screen be dna virus positive negative for the presence of -globin the internal control .
 to guarantee that the present result be valid and can be generalized for make prediction regard new datum the datum set be far randomly partition into training and independent testing set via a stratified 5 fold cross validation .
 each of the 5 subset act as an independent holdout test set for the model train with the rest of the 4 subset .
 the advantage of k-fold cross validation be that the impact of datum dependency be minimize and the reliability of the result can be improve .
 in addition the classification model be develop with a huge portion of the accessible datum in this case and all the datum be utilize to test the train model .
 a pair of training and testing set be call a fold or a group in this study .
 as show in table 1 due to the number of case positive 52 negative 28 that can not be divide by 5 the size of each fold be not the same the number of case for fold be and for the other it be .
 table .
 the datum set be far randomly partition into training and independent testing set via a stratified 5 fold cross validation .
 size of training setsize of testing set fold fold fold fold fold .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 feature selection .
 feature selection be an important issue in building classification system .
 it be advantageous to limit the number of input feature in a classifier in order to have a good predictive and little computationally intensive model .
 with a small feature set the explanation of rationale for the classification decision can be much easily realize .
 in the area of medical diagnosis a small feature subset mean low test and diagnosis cost .
 f-score chen lin be a simple technique that measure the discrimination of two set of real number .
 give training vector xk k 1 2 m if the number of positive and negative instance be n respectively then the f-score of the ith feature be define as follow chen lin where and be the average of the ith feature of the whole positive and negative datum set respectively be the ith feature of the kth positive instance and be the ith feature of the kth negative instance .
 the numerator indicate the discrimination between the positive and negative set and the denominator indicate the one within each of the two set .
 the large the f-score be the much likely this feature be much discriminative chen lin .
 setting model parameter .
 in addition to the feature subset selection proper model parameter set can improve the svm classification accuracy .
 the parameter that should be optimized include penalty parameter c and the kernel function parameter such as the gamma for the radial basis function rbf kernel .
 to design an svm one must choose a kernel function set the kernel parameter and determine a soft margin constant with the rbf kernel there be two parameter to be determine in the svm model c and gamma .
 the grid search approach hsu chang lin be an alternative to find the good c and gamma when use the rbf kernel function .
 in the grid search approach pair of c be try and the one with the good cross-validation accuracy be choose .
 after identify a well region on the grid a fine grid search on that region can be conduct .
 to get good generalization ability grid search approach use a validation process to decide parameter .
 that be for each of the k subset of the datum set d create a training set t d k then run a cross-validation process as follow chen and lin and hsu et consider a grid space of c with log2c and log2 12 13 .
 step for each hyperparameter pair c in the search space conduct k-fold cross validation on the training set .
 step choose the parameter c that lead to the low cv cross validation error classification rate .
 step use the good parameter to create a model as the predictor .
 overall accuracy be average across all k partition .
 this k accuracy value also give an estimate of the accuracy variance of the algorithm .
 setting model parameter use grid search and select input feature use f-score .
 to build diagnosis model successfully this study try a svm-based strategy use grid search to optimize model parameter and f-score calculation to select input feature see 1 .
 the procedure of grid search be the same as that shown in section a cross-validation approach with k 5 be also conduct to avoid overfitting during training process .
 the overall testing accuracy be average across all k partition .
 that be for each of the k subset of the datum setd create a training set t d k then run a cross-validation process as calculate and sort the f-score .
 step for the possible number of feature f f 1 2 where m be the total number of feature in a datum set do the follow keep the first f feature accord to the sort f-score .
 for the training set calculate the average svm accuracy use 5 fold cross validation 5-cv .
 step choose the f with the large average 5-cv accuracy .
 retrain the svm with the training set and predict the test accuracy with the test set .
 full-size image 47k the svm-based strategy use grid search to optimize model parameter and f-score calculation to select input feature .
 view within article .
 experimental result and .
 experimental result .
 in this experiment the importance of each feature be measure by f-score and the svm parameter be optimized by grid search .
 table 2 and 2 show the relative feature importance with f-score for each feature on each fold .
 the average f-score for hsv-1 hhv-8 cmv ebv and hpv from high to low be and respectively .
 the degree of breast tumor associate with dna virus from high to low be hsv-1 hhv-8 cmv ebv and hpv .
 therefore five model with a different number of feature be construct far to obtain the svm classification model .
 as show in table 3 the five model with different feature subset based on f-score be hsv-1 hsv-1 hhv-8 hsv-1 hhv-8 cmv and hsv-1 hhv-8 cmv ebv .
 table .
 the relative feature importance with f-score .
 featurefold .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 full-size image 48k the relative importance of dna virus based on the f-score .
 view within article .
 table .
 the five feature subset based on the f-score .
 modelnumber of select featuresfeatures hhv-8 hhv-8 cmv hhv-8 cmv ebv hhv-8 cmv ebv hpv .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 table 4 and table 5 show the training and testing accuracy for the five model each model achieve a high average overall accuracy of above .
 among the five model two model with feature subset hsv-1 and hsv-1 hhv-8 achieve the high training and testing accuracy .
 for this two model hsv-1 and hsv-1 hhv-8 table 6 show detail for the good svm parameter c and gamma training accuracy and testing accuracy for each fold .
 average negative positive and overall hit rate for model achieve and respectively .
 table .
 overall training accuracy for each feature subset .
 number of select featuressvm gs fs training accuracy fold deviation .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 table .
 overall testing accuracy for each feature subset .
 number of select featuressvm gs fs testing accuracy fold deviation .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 table .
 detail testing accuracy for feature subset of size 2 and 3 feature size 2features size 3 negative hit ratiopositive hit ratiooverall hit rationegative hit ratiopositive hit ratiooverall hit ratio fold fold fold fold fold .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 only two or three attribute hsv-1 or hsv-1 hhv-8 can achieve identical high accuracy .
 it be not necessary to include all feature for the sake of cost save .
 for accuracy the positive hit ratio be high than the negative hit ratio on average the overall hit ratio be highly accurate .
 the result reveal that the svm model have a good disarmament performance in diagnose breast cancer accord to datum set .
 comparison with linear discriminate analysis .
 in this experiment the importance of each feature and the classificatory accuracy be measure by linear discriminate analysis lda .
 table 7 show the significance of each attribute .
 the feature subset hsv-1 hhv-8 be include in the lda model except for fold .
 the attribute ebv be slightly insignificant in the model of fold therefore only two attribute hsv-1 be include .
 table 8 show the detail of training and testing accuracy for each fold .
 average negative positive and overall hit rate for the model achieve and respectively .
 table .
 the p-level of each attribute for lda .
 hsv-1hhv-8ebvcmvhpv fold fold fold fold fold .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 table .
 training and testing accuracy for lda .
 trainingtesting negative hit ratiopositive hit ratiooverall hit rationegative hit ratiopositive hit ratiooverall hit ratio fold fold fold fold fold .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 table 9 show that the accuracy of svm be slightly superior to the accuracy of lda .
 for the select feature svm include hsv-1 hhv-8 or hsv-1 while lda include hsv-1 hhv-8 or hsv-1 .
 table .
 comparison summary between svm and lda .
 negative hit ratiopositive hit ratiooverall hit ratioselected feature hhv-8 or hsv-1 hhv-8 or hsv-1 hhv-8 full-size table .
 view within article .
 discussion and conclusion .
 this paper have explore five dna virus hsv-1 ebv cmv hpv and hhv-8 affect a breast tumor diagnose by use support vector machine .
 in order to find the correlation dna virus with breast tumor and to achieve a high classificatory accuracy f-score be adapt to find the important feature and the grid search approach be use to search the optimal svm parameter .
 the result reveal that the svm-based model have good performance in diagnose breast cancer accord to datum set .
 the present study 's result also show that the attribute hsv-1 or hsv-1 hhv-8 can achieve identical high accuracy at of average overall hit rate .
 although this two model have an identical high accuracy consider the diagnosis cost and accuracy this study suggest simultaneously consider hsv-1 and hhv-8 be feasible however only consider hhv-8 or hsv-1 be little accurate .
 from the svm model and lda the author find that the hsv-1 and hhv-8 be the common important feature for breast tumor in distinguish breast cancer and fibroadenoma .
 the development of an oncolytic viral therapy for breast cancer with an hsv-1 mutant be by the result also indicate that replication-competent hsv-1 mutant hold significant potential as cancer therapeutic agent .
 detect two woman who develop kaposi 's sarcoma in the lymphedematous arm many year after surgery for breast cancer .
 kaposi 's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus kshv hhv-8 be suggest to be associate with breast cancer .
 additionally from the svm model cmv have also the important feature for breast tumor .
 investigate the association between ebv and cmv immunoglobulin g level and the risk of breast cancer before age in australian breast cancer family .
 result be such that cmv be a risk factor for breast cancer .
 furthermore richardson 1997 suggest that cmv be a risk factor for breast carcinoma .
 the antibody activity against cmv increase in several seropositive patient .
 none of this patient however develop sign of a cmv infection .
 the lda show ebv be an important feature in breast tumor beside hsv-1 and hhv-8 .
 the first report of the positive effect of ebv on breast cancer be labrecque barnes fentiman and grifin 1995 .
 chu chen and chang 1998 study the presence of ebv in breast cancer and suggest that it may not play a significant role in the etiology of breast cancer in taiwan .
 glaser ambinder digiuseppe horn-ross and hsu 1998 conclude that the ebv eber-1 transcript be not commonly express in breast cancer based on a broadly representative case series .
 investigate the presence of ebv in human breast cancer and indicate that ebv might be a cofactor in the development of some breast cancer .
 research nine study of ebv in breast cancer and find only one of 115 case that test positive for ebv .
 conclude that ebv can be regularly detect in whole section of breast cancer but viral copy number be very low .
 based on svm model and lda the neglect factor be hpv .
 this find be the same as that of klein and klein .
 klein and klein also show that hpv have not be associate with breast cancer .
 this report conclude that product of the hpv genome induce immortalization of human breast epithelial cell and reduce growth factor requirement .
 the present study show that the svm-based classifier for fibroadenoma or breast cancer diagnosis classification model be satisfactory both in classificatory accuracy and in find the important feature to discriminate between fibroadenoma or breast cancer .
 the practical obstacle of the svm-based as well as neural network classification model be black-box nature .
 a possible solution for this issue be the use of svm rule extraction technique or the use of hybrid-svm model combine with other much interpretable model .
 this issue remain to be solve in future research .
 recent investigation show that antioxidant activity of plant tissue be correlated with oxidative stress defense and different human disease include cancer arteriosclerosis and aging process manosroi et 1995 and stajner et 1995 .
 polyphenolic antioxidant can interfere with the oxidation process by react with free radical chelating free catalytic metal and act as oxygen scavenger sanchez-moreno larrauri saura-calixto 1999 shahidi wanasundara 1992 .
 thus antioxidant defensive system have co-evolved with aerobic metabolism to counteract oxidative damage of reactive oxygen species ros .
 breast cancer be the much common diagnose invasive cancer in woman and be consider to be one of the lead cause of death due to cancer .
 breast cancer be extremely difficult to treat due to several distinct class of tumor which exhibit different treatment response .
 epidemiological study have indicate the relationship between flavonoid intake and reduce risk of certain cancer lopez-otin and diamandis 1998 and middleton et .
 in many study of dietary prevention of cancer a model of breast cancer have be establish in assess the impact of a wide variety of flavonoid for efficacy in inhibit cancer wang et and zhang et .
 a decrease risk of breast cancer incidence have be associate with a high intake of genistein and moderate consumption of red wine linseisen et and tomera 1999 .
 the biological and pharmacological property of chinese herb have be receive much attention in recent year which be attributed to the fact that chinese herb contain a significant amount of phytochemical such as antioxidant and other bioactive compound .
 pinus massoniana lamb also name as chinese red pine mountain pine or green pine belong to gymnosperms and be one species of pinaceae sub .
 pine bark extract be a unique mixture of flavonoid which comprise w w of flavonoid monomers and w w of condensed flavonoid identify mainly as procyanidins .
 this procyanidins be mainly constitute by the flavan-3-ols catechin and epicatechin which link together from dimer up to heptamers .
 it be report that the bark extract of the french marine pine can protect the low-density fraction of human plasma lipoprotein against copper-induced oxidation and dna from iron ascorbate-induced damage nelson lau ide rong 1998 .
 moreover french marine pine can also protect cellular system by increase the activity of endogenous antioxidant enzyme such as glutathione redox enzyme gsh reductase and gsh peroxidase superoxide dismutase and catalase rong li lau 1995 .
 unfortunately there be very limited in formation about antioxidant activity and other biological activity of pepb .
 in the present study inhibition effect on linoleic-acid peroxidation reduce power metal chelating ability dpph and nitric-oxide radical scavenge activity of pepb be investigate .
 the immunomodulatory and anti-breast cancer activity of pepb be also evaluate .
 material and .
 chemical .
 linoleic acid ferrozine and dpph be purchase from sigma aldrich steinheim germany .
 butylated hydroxytoluene bht butylated hydroxyanisole bha vitamin e vitamin c ammonium thiocyanate and terbutylhydroquinone tbhq be purchase from nanjing chemical nanjing china .
 sulfanilamide n- 1 naphthyl ethylenediamine dihydrochloride and ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid edta be purchase from merck mumbai germany .
 3- bromide mtt dimethyl sulfoxide dmso -mercaptoethanol l-glutamine paclitaxel and rutin be purchase from sigma chemical louis mo usa while medium be purchase from gibco brl invitrogen caithershurg md .
 fetal calf serum penicillin and streptomycin be obtain from zhongshan university guangzhou china .
 all other chemical use be of analytical grade .
 preparation of pepb .
 the air-dried bark of massionana lamb at the mature stage be ground into powder .
 the powder g be extract with ethanol with a ratio of w v for 2 h at the extract be then filter through muslin .
 the filtrate be evaporate under reduce pressure and vacuum-dried then use for follow bioassays .
 the yield of pepb be about w w with reference to the dry bark .
 determination of antioxidant activity with ftc method .
 the antioxidant activity of pepb on inhibition of linoleic-acid peroxidation be determine by the ftc method mitsuda yasumoto iwani 1996 .
 a methanolic solution ml of each sample be mix with ml of m linoleic-acid emulsion in phosphate buffer ph .
 the reaction mixture be incubate at 37 c to accelerate the oxidation process .
 ml of ethanol and ml of ammonium thiocyanate be add to ml of this solution .
 precisely 3 min after the addition of ml of m ferrous chloride in w v hydrochloric acid to the reaction mixture the peroxide value be determine by read the absorbance at nm for every 12 h until the absorbance of the blank the extract sample at g ml reach maximum .
 the solution without pepb be use as the control .
 distilled water be use as blank .
 the antioxidant activity of vitamin e and c as standard reference be also assay .
 the percent inhibition of lipid peroxidation of linoleic-acid emulsion be calculate as follow where be the absorbance of the control while a1 be the absorbance in the presence of the sample glin oktay kfrevioglu aslan .
 all the test be carry out in triplicate .
 assay of dpph radical scavenge activity .
 the assay of dpph radical scavenge activity be carry out by the method of shimada fujikawa yahara and nakamura 1996 with some modification .
 briefly 2 ml of mm dpph in ethanol solution be add to 2 ml of pepb solution in ethanol at 2 g ml and then the mixture solution be maintain for min in the dark .
 the absorbance be measure at 517 nm .
 a low absorbance of the reaction mixture indicate a high radical scavenge activity .
 the antioxidant activity of vitamin c and tbhq as standard reference be also assay .
 the solution without pepb be use as the control .
 ethanol be use as blank .
 all the test be perform in triplicate .
 the inhibition of dpph radical by the sample be calculate as follow reducing power .
 the reduce power of pepb be determine by the method of yen duh and tsai 1993 .
 different concentration of pepb dissolve in methanol be mix with ml of m phosphate buffer ph and ml of potassium ferricyanide .
 the mixture be incubate for min at after incubation ml of trichloroacetic acid be add to the mixture follow by centrifugation at g for min .
 the supernatant ml be collect and then mix with ml of distil water and ml of ferric chloride .
 the absorbance of the result solution be measure at nm .
 the antioxidant activity of vitamin e vitamin c and bha as standard reference be also assay .
 distilled water be use as blank .
 all the test be carry out in triplicate .
 metal chelating ability .
 the chelating ability of ferrous ion of pepb be estimate by the method of dinis madeira and almeida 1994 .
 briefly pepb solution at g ml be add to ml of 2 mm fecl2 .
 the reaction be initiate after the addition of ml of 5 mm ferrozine .
 the mixture be shake vigorously and keep at room temperature 25 c for min .
 the absorbance of the solution be then measure at 562 nm .
 the antioxidant activity of bha bht and edta as standard reference be also assay .
 distilled water be use as blank .
 all the test be carry out in triplicate .
 assay of nitric-oxide scavenge activity .
 the scavenge activity of pepb on nitric-oxide be measure accord to the method of marcocci maguire droy-lefaiz and packer 1994 .
 the method be based on the principle that sodium nitroprusside in a aqueous solution at physiological ph spontaneously generate nitric-oxide which interact with oxygen to produce nitrite ion that can be estimate use a griess reagent .
 scavengers of nitric-oxide act against oxygen lead to reduce production of nitrite ion .
 in this experiment 2 ml of pepb be add to ml of 25 mm sodium nitroprusside snp solution and the mixture be incubate at room temperature 25 c for min .
 the griess reagent ml sulfanilamide in h3po4 and naphthylethylenediamine dihydrochloride be then add to the mixture .
 the absorbance of the chromophore form during diazotization of the nitrite with sulfanilamide and subsequent coupling with naphthylethylenediamine dihydrochloride be immediately record at nm .
 the antioxidant activity of bha and bht as standard reference be also assay .
 distilled water be use as blank .
 all the test be carry out in triplicate .
 determination of total phenolic content .
 the total phenolic content tpc be determine by the folin ciocalteu method singleton orthofer lamuela-raventos 1999 .
 briefly the extract be dissolve in methanol .
 extract solution ml be mix with ml of the folin ciocalteau reagent .
 after 3 min ml of na2co3 be add while the mixture be allow to stand for 2 h with intermittent shaking at room temperature 25 c .
 the absorbance be measure at nm .
 total phenolic content be express as mg of gallic-acid equivalent gce on dry weight dw basis .
 animal .
 normal female balb c mouse 2 3 month old from the zhongshan university guangzhou china be maintain in a pathogen-free environment .
 they be allow continuous free access to standard laboratory chow and fresh water .
 the mouse be allow to acclimatize for 7 to day prior to experiment .
 cell line and culture .
 human breast cancer mcf-7 and helf cell line be obtain from the immune system analysis laboratory of zhongshan university guangzhou china .
 the cell be maintain in the complete medium in a humidify co2 atmosphere at 37 .
 mice be kill by cervical dislocation and spleen be remove aseptically .
 single cell be prepare by mince spleen fragment and press them through a stainless mesh screen in the rpmi complete medium .
 the complete medium be supplement with fetal calf serum 2 mm l-glutamine m -mercaptoethanol penicillin u ml and streptomycin g ml .
 an amount of cell be place in a 16 mm well and incubate for 3 h in a humidify co2 at 37 the supernatant together with the non-adherent cell be collect by centrifugation at rpm for min .
 the cell pellet be re-suspended in the rpmi complete medium and then adjust to cell ml manosroi saraphanchotiwitthaya manosroi .
 in vitro proliferation assay .
 the proliferation stimulatory effect of pepb on the splenocyte and the cytotoxicity to both mcf-7 and helf cell be evaluate by the 3- bromide mtt assay method describe previously sun qin pan .
 briefly l of g ml pepb paclitaxel or rutin which be dissolve in ethanol dilute with rpmi and then add into the well be add to l of cell suspension cell ml and l of rpmi in a 96 well flat-bottom plate .
 control cell be incubate with a medium contain an equivalent solvent amount without the test material .
 the final solvent concentration be in a range of .
 in this experiment it be find that the concentration level do not alter cell growth .
 the plate be incubate at 37 c in a humidify co2 atmosphere .
 after 44 h l of mtt solution 5 mg ml be add to each well and then incubate for 4 h .
 the supernatant be remove carefully by pipetting from well without disturbing the attach cell and formazan crystal be solubilized by add l of dsmo to each well and shake for 15 min .
 the absorbance at nm be measure with a microplate reader bio-rad richmond use well without cell as control .
 all the experiment be perform in triplicate .
 the pepb on the proliferation of mcf-7 and helf be calculate from the follow formula while the stimulatory effect of pepb on the proliferation of splenocyte be calculate as follow statistical analysis .
 all the datum be express as mean standard deviation sd of three replicate determination .
 statistical calculation by originpro version software originlab corporation usa be carry out .
 one way of variance analysis be apply for determine difference between result of sample .
 value of p be consider as significantly different .
 result and .
 antioxidant activity of pepb on linoleic acid peroxidation .
 in this study total phenolic content of pepb measure be mg gce g dw which show the pine bark be a rich source of polyphenol .
 the antioxidant activity of pepb be measure use ftc system .
 the ftc method be use to measure the peroxide level during the initial stage of lipid oxidation .
 during linoleic-acid oxidation peroxide be form and oxidize into result in a maximum absorbance at nm .
 low absorbance value indicate high level of antioxidant activity duh tu yen 1999 .
 as show in table 1 pepb exhibit a dose-dependent antioxidant activity .
 at the concentration of g ml pepb have the high percent inhibition of follow by vitamin e and c which suggest that the antioxidant activity of the pepb against linoleic acid peroxidation be high than that of vitamin e or .
 table .
 in vitro antioxidant activity of pepb and standard antioxidant vitamin e and c in linoleic-acid peroxidation system by ftc .
 pepb g ml absorbance at nminhibition vitamin c vitamin e .
 full-size table .
 data be represent as mean sd n 3 mean with indicate significantly different to vitamin e p .
 view within article .
 dpph radical scavenge activity .
 dpph assay be use to evaluate the ability of antioxidant to scavenge free radical .
 as show in 1 the scavenge activity of pepb vitamin c and tbhq on dpph radical be compare .
 pepb have a strong scavenge activity on the dpph radical and the effect enhance with increase concentration in the range of 2 g ml .
 however no significant difference p be observe between the scavenge activity at and g ml .
 pepb exhibit the high scavenge activity follow by vitamin c and tbhq at g ml .
 full-size image 9k free radical scavenge activity of pepb tbhq and vitamin c .
 result be mean sd of three replicate measurement .
 view within article .
 assay of nitric-oxide scavenge activity .
 it be well-known that nitric-oxide no have an important role in various type of inflammatory process in the animal body .
 the scavenge no activity may help arrest the chain of reaction initiate by excess generation of no that be detrimental to human health .
 the scavenge activity of pepb bht and bha on no radical be evaluate respectively .
 as show in 2 pepb have a stronger nitric-oxide scavenge activity at 25 g ml .
 the inhibition effect enhance with increase concentration .
 pepb exhibit of no radical scavenge activity as g ml be use which be significantly p high than bha and bht .
 full-size image 12k in vitro no-scavenging activity of pepb bha and bht .
 result be mean sd of three replicate measurement .
 view within article .
 reducing power .
 a good correlation between antioxidant activity and reduce power in some plant extract have be prove yen chen peng .
 therefore the reduce capacity may use as an indicator of the potential antioxidant 3 show the reduce power of pepb compare with bha vitamin e and the pepb have a dose-dependent reducing power .
 at the same concentration use the reduce power of pepb be high than bha vitamin e and .
 full-size image 13k reducing power of pepb vitamin c vitamin e and bha .
 result be mean sd of three replicate measurement .
 view within article .
 metal chelating ability .
 the metal chelating ability of pepb and standard antioxidant be determine by evaluate capacity to compete with ferrozine for the ferrous ion .
 ferrozine can quantitatively form complex with .
 in the presence of chelating agent the complex formation be disrupt result in reduce red colour of the complex .
 therefore measurement of the rate of colour reduction allow estimation of the chelating ability of the coexist chelator yamaguchi ariga yoshimira nakazawa .
 as show in 4 the formation of complex be not complete in the presence of pepb .
 furthermore the ability of chelating ferrous ion be enhance with increase pepb concentration .
 the metal chelating ability of pepb be great than that of bht but low than that of bha .
 the difference between pepb and edta be statistically significant p .
 while g ml of bha bht and edta show and of ferrous-ion chelating ability respectively .
 it be report that chelating agent be effective as secondary antioxidant because they reduce the redox potential thereby stabilising the oxidized form of the metal ion gardner et and yen et 1993 .
 the datum in this study exhibit pepb have an effective ability for iron binding .
 full-size image 11k the chelating effect of pepb bha edta and bht on ferrous ion .
 result be mean sd of three replicate measurement .
 view within article .
 immunomodulatory activity of pepb .
 the immunomodulatory activity of pepb be investigate use the proliferation of splenocyte .
 as show in 5 at g ml the pepb markedly stimulate the proliferation of splenocyte in a dose-dependent manner .
 when the concentration of pepb be g ml the low concentration use in this study exhibit significantly p stimulatory effect on splenocyte proliferation .
 the concentration g ml use in this study of pepb exhibit and of stimulatory effect on the proliferation of splenocyte respectively .
 while rutin show and of stimulatory effect respectively .
 the result reveal that pepb exhibit stronger stimulatory effect on proliferation of mouse splenocyte than rutin .
 similar result have be report for plant extract and propolis flavone kong et and lin et .
 full-size image the stimulatory effect of pepb and rutin on the proliferation of splenocyte .
 result be mean sd of three replicate measurement .
 view within article .
 anti-breast cancer activity of lamb bark extract .
 table 2 present the cytotoxicity to mcf-7 cell by pepb and paclitaxel at various concentration after 72 h of treatment .
 pepb significantly inhibit mcf-7 cell proliferation in a dose-dependant manner at high concentration than g ml p .
 and of cytotoxicity by pepb at and g ml be observe respectively .
 the median effective dose of pepb for the inhibition of mcf-7 cell proliferation be g ml .
 on the other hand paclitaxel be approve by fda as an anticancer drug show a strong cytotoxicity to mcf-7 and helf .
 the cytotoxicity to mcf-7 by paclitaxel at g ml be beyond .
 as 125 g ml be use the cytotoxicity to mcf-7 and helf by paclitaxel be and respectively .
 the result suggest that paclitaxel exhibit a good inhibitory effect on cancer cell proliferation but it damage normal cell .
 table .
 cytotoxicity to human breast cancer mcf-7 cell by pepb and paclitaxel at various concentration after 72 h of treatment .
 pepb concentration g ml absorbance at nmcytotoxicity paclitaxel concentration g ml absorbance at nmcytotoxicity .
 full-size table .
 data be represent as mean sd n 3 .
 mean with indicate significantly different to paclitaxel at the same level p .
 view within article .
 as show in table 3 at concentration test pepb exhibit a different cytotoxity to helf cell and a dose-dependent effect on cell viability and proliferation .
 furthermore pepb be relatively safe to non-cancerous cell little cytotoxicity observe at the range from to 125 g ml than paclitaxel .
 this observation suggest pepb as an attractive component may be use as a potentially anticancer agent .
 table .
 cytotoxicity to helf by pepb and paclitaxel at various concentration after 72 h of treatment as determine by tetrazolium dye mtt assay .
 pepb concentration g ml absorbance at nmcytotoxicity paclitaxel g ml absorbance at nmcytotoxicity .
 full-size table .
 data be represent as mean sd .
 mean with indicate significantly different to paclitaxel at the same level p .
 view within article .
 conclusion .
 pepb exhibit a strong antioxidant activity in the five model study include total antioxidant activity free radical scavenge activity metal chelating ability and nitric-oxide scavenge activity .
 the antioxidant activity of pepb might be attributed to effective hydrogen-donating ability metal-chelating capability and effectiveness as good scavenger of hydrogen peroxide and free radical .
 pepb also show a stronger stimulatory effect on the proliferation of mouse splenocyte than rutin .
 in addition pepb inhibit growth of human breast cancer mcf-7 cell at 125 g ml which have a low toxicity on helf than paclitaxel .
 the result obtain from this study suggest that pepb be use as an easy accessible source of natural antioxidant and as a possible supplement in pharmaceutical industry .
 the major component responsible for the immunomodulatory and anticancer activity need to be far investigate .
 acknowledgement .
 the financial support provide by the national natural science foundation of china eleventh-five-year national key technology r and d program and and the guangdong provincial agricultural research foundation be greatly appreciate .
 indeed mmp-9 be secrete as a zymogen and cleave to an active form and function be tightly regulate by several multistep mechanism .
 previous study indicate that mmp be express in breast cancer tissue .
 aberrant overexpression of mmp-9 be associate with increase cancer-invasive potential in breast cancer cell .
 to date many study have investigate the importance of mmp-9 in breast cancer metastasis .
 aberrant expression of her-2 oncogene be relate to disease progression and increase invasive capacity in breast cancer which may be due to increased mmp expression .
 positive mmp-9 expression correlate with her-2 overexpression in estrogen receptor er disease .
 her-2 be a ubiquitous transmembrane tyrosine kinase that have be implicate in different growth-related and growth-unrelated process that be critical for the development and progression of malignant tumor such as proliferation survival and anchorage-independent growth as well as cell adhesion migration and invasion .
 amplification and overexpression of her-2 neu have be find in breast ovarian gastric and prostate carcinoma .
 a recent study demonstrate that the growth factor heregulin-1 hrg-1 which be express in about of breast cancer malignancy activate her-2 receptor via the induction of heterodimeric complex of her-2 with her-3 or her-4 .
 high level of hrg-1 a major signaling molecule of her-4 correlated with tumor size and short disease-free survival in tumor .
 her-2 her-3 dimerization be a strong mitogen for many hormone-dependent breast cancer cell line and have be find in the epithelial and or stromal component of breast tumor .
 hrg-1 induce the follow activation of her-2 receptor increase expression of mmp-9 and invasiveness of breast cancer cell .
 overexpression of her-2 be also able to up-regulate the expression of mmp-9 and to enhance the invasive capacity of tumor cell .
 this observation suggest that in cell the hrg-1 her-2 signaling pathway be critical for metastatic cell spread .
 in recent study tissue inhibitor metalloproteinase protein timp have be report as a natural mmp inhibitor and to prevent the degradation of extracellular matrix protein .
 it abolish the hydrolytic activity of all activate member of the metalloproteinase family in particular that of mt1-mmp mmp-2 and mmp-9 which be selective for type iv collagenolysis .
 thus timp-1 negatively regulate mmp-9 activity .
 however multifunctional role also correlate with the expression of her-2 and mammary malignancy .
 resveratrol a major component in grape exhibit potential anticarcinogenic activity in many type of cancer .
 the chemotherapeutic role of resveratrol act at several stage of the multistep malignancy process .
 however the inhibitory effect of resveratrol on the hrg-1 her-2-mediated expression of mmp-9 have not be study well yet .
 in this study we investigate whether resveratrol affect timp-1 expression and suppress the her-2-mediated expression of mmp-9 during breast cancer cell invasion .
 material and .
 reagent and antibody .
 recombinant hrg-1 protein antiphosphorylation erk-1 2 antibody and anti-timp monoclonal antibody be purchase from rd system minneapolis mn .
 antiphosphorylation her-2 monoclonal antibody be purchase from cell signaling danvers ma .
 antiactin monoclonal antibody be purchase from santa cruz biotech santa cruz .
 resveratrol l-glutamine sodium bicarbonate sodium pyruvate nonessential amino acid neaa and gelatin be purchase from sigma louis mo .
 dulbecco 's modify eagle 's medium dmem and insulin be purchase from invitrogen carlsbad .
 human breast cancer mcf-7 cell be purchase from the american type culture collection manassas va .
 cell culture .
 briefly mcf-7 cell be cultured in a 37c humidify incubator with co2 and grow to confluency use fetal bovine serum fbs -supplemented dmem .
 dmem be supplement with heat-inactivated fbs 2 mm l-glutamine g l sodium bicarbonate mm sodium pyruvate mm neaa and 4 ng ml insulin .
 supplementation with resveratrol .
 human breast cancer cell be incubate with different concentration 2 5 and m of resveratrol .
 for efficient uptake of resveratrol by mcf-7 cell resveratrol be dissolve in dimethyl sulfoxide as a carrier vehicle incorporate into fbs for min and mix with dmem .
 gelatin zymography .
 protein g from supernatant of cultured breast cancer cell be load into a polyacrylamide gel contain wt vol gelatin .
 the gel be incubate at room temperature for 2 h in the presence of triton and subsequently at 37c overnight in a buffer contain mm cacl2 m nacl and mm tris ph .
 the gel be stain for protein with coomassie blue and photograph on a light box .
 proteolysis be detect as a white zone in a dark field .
 western blot analysis .
 human breast mcf-7 cancer cell be cultured in a fbs culture medium in the presence or in the absence of resveratrol for various length of time min for the phosphorylation of her-2 and erk1 2 24 h for the expression of timp .
 cell be lysed in a buffer contain the follow 1 phosphate-buffered saline ipegal sigma sodium deoxycholate sodium dodecyl sulfate with m phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride aprotinin and specific phosphatase inhibitor sodium orthovanadate .
 cell lysate be clear by centrifugation .
 cellular protein be fractioned on sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis transfer to nitrocellulose membrane and blot with antiphosphorylation erk1 2 antibody accord to the manufacturer 's instruction .
 blot be strip and reprobed with antiactin antibody as loading control .
 timp and phosphorylated her-2 be measure use the same procedure describe above .
 cell invasion assay .
 invasion of tumor cell be analyzed in transwell boyden chamber with a polyvinyl pyrrolidone-free polycarbonate filter of 8 m pore size .
 each filter be coat with l of a dilute matrigel in cold dmem to form a thin continuous film on top of the filter .
 human breast cancer cell stimulate with hrg-1 ng ml be add to each of the triplicate well in dmem cell well .
 after incubation for 16 h cell in randomly selective field be count .
 the number of cell invade the low side of the filter be measure as invasive activity invasive index .
 statistical analysis .
 we use a statistical software to analyze and determine difference in invasive capability between experimental set of invasive cancer cell and control set of cancer cell .
 in brief statistical analysis of difference in invasive capability among triplicate set of experimental condition be perform use sas .
 the confirmation of difference in invasion as be statistically significant require rejection of the null hypothesis of no difference between mean invasive index obtain from triplicate set at the level of student 's t test .
 .
 effect of resveratrol on hrg-1-mediated her-2 activation in mcf-7 breast cancer cell .
 a previous study have indicate that hrg-1 be a strong mitogen for many hormone-dependent breast cancer cell line and have be find in the epithelial and or stromal component of breast tumor .
 however the effect of resveratrol on hrg-1 her-2 signaling pathway have not be demonstrate yet .
 therefore in the present study we investigate whether resveratrol inhibit the hrg-1 her-2-mediated expression of mmp-9 in human breast cancer cell .
 initially we examine the effect of resveratrol on hrg-1-mediated her-2 activation .
 as show in 1 hrg-1 significantly induce the phosphorylation of her-2 receptor .
 however resveratrol have a negligible effect on the activation of her-2 receptor protein without any change in the total actin protein level .
 full-size image 28k effect of resveratrol on hrg-1-mediated her-2 activation in mcf-7 breast cancer cell .
 postconfluent human breast cancer cell cultured on a cm petri dish be incubate in dmem with fbs at 37c .
 after wash out the medium breast cancer cell be preincubated in dmem with fbs with various concentration of resveratrol m and be stimulate by hrg-1 ng ml at 37c for min .
 total cell lysate be blot with anti-p-her-2 antibody as describe in material and method .
 level of detection represent the amount of tyrosine-phosphorylated her-2 in breast cancer cell .
 blot be strip and reprobed with anti-actin monoclonal antibody as loading control .
 immunoreactive band be note with an arrow a .
 densitometric analysis be show in b .
 the datum show be representative of three independent experiment .
 view within article .
 mitogen-activated protein kinase mapk 2 signaling molecule play an important role in hrg-1-mediated mmp-9 expression in mcf-7 breast cancer cell .
 since an mmp-9 promoter consist of ap-1-binding site it be plausible to investigate the important role of mapk and pi-3k signaling pathway in hrg-1-mediated mmp-9 activation .
 we use different specific kinase inhibitor to examine the important role of mapk signaling pathway in the regulation of mmp-9 expression .
 among all of them we find that the erk1 2-specific inhibitor at a low concentration m significantly suppress hrg-1-mediated mmp-9 expression in human breast cancer mcf-7 cell lane 2 in 2 .
 further inhibitory effect be observe in the presence of resveratrol and lane 3 in 2 .
 no inhibitory effect be observe under treatment with a low concentration m of wortmannin a pi-3k-specific inhibitor a jnk-specific inhibitor and a p38-specific inhibitor datum not show .
 it suggest that the expression of mmp-9 be in part regulate by the erk1 2 signaling pathway .
 resveratrol be still a potential compound in the suppression of mmp-9 expression .
 full-size image 22k mapk 2 signaling molecule play an important role in hrg-1-mediated mmp-9 expression in mcf-7 breast cancer cell .
 postconfluent breast cancer cell cultured on a 24 well plate be incubate in dmem with fbs at 37c .
 after wash out the medium breast cancer cell be incubate in serum-free condition medium dmem with the mek signaling inhibitor m and be stimulate by hrg-1 ng ml at 37c for 24 h .
 conditioned medium be collect and load into gelatin-containing zymogram gel .
 the gel be stain with coomassie blue stain as describe in material and method .
 level of detection represent the zymogen expression of mmp-9 in breast cancer cell .
 mmp-9 band be note with an arrow a .
 densitometric analysis be show in b .
 asterisk represent statistically significant difference compare to the hrg-1-stimulated group .
 the datum show be representative of three independent experiment .
 view within article .
 effect of resveratrol on hrg-1-mediated erk1 2 activation in mcf-7 breast cancer cell .
 to explore the possible mechanism of resveratrol in the suppression of mmp-9 activity we investigate the inhibitory effect of resveratrol on hrg-1-mediated mapk erk activation .
 as show in 3 resveratrol suppress hrg-1-mediated erk1 2 phosphorylation without any change in total actin protein .
 it suggest that resveratrol block the her-2-mediated expression of mmp-9 via the suppression of erk1 2 activity .
 full-size image effect of resveratrol on hrg-1-mediated erk1 2 activation in mcf-7 breast cancer cell .
 postconfluent human breast cancer cell cultured on a cm petri dish be incubate in dmem with fbs at 37c .
 after wash out the medium breast cancer cell be preincubated in dmem with fbs with various concentration of resveratrol m and be stimulate by hrg-1 ng ml at 37c for min .
 total cell lysate be blot with anti-p-erk1 2 antibody as describe in material and method .
 level of detection represent the amount of tyrosine-phosphorylated erk1 2 in breast cancer cell .
 blot be strip and reprobed with antiactin monoclonal antibody as loading control .
 immunoreactive band be note with an arrow a .
 densitometric analysis be show in b .
 asterisk represent statistically significant difference compare to the hrg-1-stimulated group .
 the datum show be representative of three independent experiment .
 view within article .
 effect of resveratrol on hrg-1-mediated mmp-9 expression in mcf-7 breast cancer cell .
 we far examine whether resveratrol suppress mmp-9 expression and the invasion of breast cancer cell .
 result from zymogram gel indicate that resveratrol potentially block her-2-mediated mmp expression in human breast cancer mcf-7 cell at a concentration of m .
 this result suggest that resveratrol play a crucial role in the down-regulation of mmp-9 expression .
 full-size image 28k effect of resveratrol on hrg-1-mediated mmp-9 expression in mcf-7 breast cancer cell .
 postconfluent breast cancer cell cultured on a 24 well plate be incubate in dmem with fbs at 37c .
 after wash out the medium breast cancer cell be incubate in serum-free condition medium dmem with different concentration of resveratrol m and be stimulate by hrg-1 ng ml at 37c for 24 h .
 conditioned medium be collect and load into gelatin-containing zymogram gel .
 the gel be stain with coomassie blue stain as describe in material and method .
 level of detection represent the zymogen expression of mmp-9 in breast cancer cell .
 zymogen band be note with an arrow a .
 densitometric analysis be show in b .
 asterisk represent statistically significant difference compare to the hrg-1-stimulated group .
 the datum show be representative of three independent experiment .
 view within article .
 effect of resveratrol on hrg-1-mediated human breast cancer cell invasion .
 result from the above experiment show that resveratrol inhibit the expression of mmp-9 via suppression of the mapk erk signaling pathway .
 since mmp include mmp-9 play an important role in cellular invasion we far examine the effect of resveratrol on hrg-1-mediated human breast cancer cell invasion .
 result show that resveratrol significantly inhibit breast cancer cell invasion in the presence of hrg-1 .
 this result suggest that resveratrol not only inhibit mmp-9 activity but also prevent the invasion of breast cancer cell under the stimulation of hrg-1 .
 therefore resveratrol function as a chemotherapeutic and therapeutic agent to prevent and suppress the spread of breast cancer cell .
 full-size image 57k effect of resveratrol on hrg-1-mediated human breast cancer cell invasion .
 invasion of tumor cell be analyzed in transwell boyden chamber with a polyvinyl pyrrolidone-free polycarbonate filter of 8 m pore size .
 each filter be coat with l of a dilute matrigel in cold dmem to form a thin continuous layer on top of the filter .
 confluent human breast cancer cell be cultured in dmem with fbs at 37c .
 after wash out the medium breast cancer cell be trypsinized and transfer to matrigel-coated transwell boyden chamber .
 human breast cancer cell cell well stimulate with hrg-1 ng ml be add to each of triplicate well in dmem contain various concentration of resveratrol m .
 after incubation for 16 h cell be stain and count as describe above and the number of cell invade the low side of the filter be measure as invasive a d microphotographs of invasive breast cancer e the number of invasive cell .
 asterisk represent statistically significant difference compare to the unstimulated group .
 the datum show be representative of three independent experiment .
 view within article .
 effect of resveratrol on timp-1 expression in human breast cancer .
 recent study demonstrate that timp-1 suppress tumor angiogenesis .
 however contrast role in the growth of mammary carcinoma have be identify .
 therefore we investigate the possibility that resveratrol affect timp-1 expression to suppress breast cancer invasion .
 as show in 6 resveratrol have no effect on the expression of timp-1 in human breast cancer cell .
 it suggest that the inhibitory effect of resveratrol on cell invasion do not occur through the timp-1 pathway .
 full-size image 27k effect of resveratrol on the expression of timp-1 in human breast cancer .
 postconfluent human breast cancer cell cultured on a cm petri dish be incubate in dmem with fbs at 37c .
 after wash out the medium breast cancer cell be incubate in dmem with fbs with various concentration of resveratrol m and be stimulate by hrg-1 ng ml at 37c for 24 h .
 total cell lysate be blot with anti-timp antibody as describe in material and method .
 level of detection represent the amount of timp in breast cancer cell .
 blot be strip and reprobed with antiactin monoclonal antibody as loading control .
 immunoreactive band be note with an arrow a .
 densitometric analysis be show in b .
 the datum show be representative of three independent experiment .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 tumor angiogenesis invasion and metastasis require control degradation of extracellular matrix and increase expression of mmp be associate with tumor invasion and metastasis of malignant tumor .
 her-2 neu amplification have be show to correlate with mmp-9 expression and tumor invasion .
 although resveratrol have be indicate as a strong anticarcinogenic compound effect on her-2-mediated mmp-9 expression and cellular invasion have not be investigate yet .
 we initially test the possibility that resveratrol inhibit the her-2 signaling pathway .
 as show in 1 resveratrol not suppress the phosphorylation of her-2 receptor .
 since her-2 pathway play an important role in the regulation of mmp-9 expression we far test the downstream signaling pathway .
 previous study have show that hrg-1 activate her-2 and her-3 her-4 heterodimer and induce the activation of downstream signaling pathway include pi-3k and mapk pathway .
 to investigate whether mmp-9 up-regulation be mediate through the activation of this signaling pathway we test hypothesis by use a low concentration m of different specific kinase inhibitor include mek inhibitor wortmannin a pi-3k-specific inhibitor a jnk-specific inhibitor and a p38-specific inhibitor .
 even at a concentration of m mek inhibitor alone effectively block the expression of mmp-9 .
 however no change or little change in mmp-9 expression be observe in the treatment of other kinase inhibitor datum not show .
 this result suggest that expression of mmp-9 be sensitive to the phosphorylation status of erk1 2 .
 the activation of mapk erk cascade play an important role in the regulation of hrg-1-mediated mmp-9 expression .
 thus we far test whether resveratrol suppress the activation of mapk erk signaling molecule to block the expression of mmp-9 .
 as show in 3 we find that resveratrol at a low concentration of m significantly inhibit the activation of the mapk erk signaling pathway .
 interestingly we also find a very low basal erk1 2 phosphorylation in mcf-7 cell although comparable total erk1 2 be detect datum not show .
 it suggest that it compromise the extent to which resveratrol inhibit hrg-1-dependent erk1 2 phosphorylation .
 one plausible explanation be that we use the early stage of mcf-7 cell low-malignancy cell rather than the later stage of mcf-7 cell transform and moderate malignancy cell in this study .
 we be currently investigate the discrepancy based on the different stage of mcf-7 cell .
 this result suggest that resveratrol inhibit the activation of mapk erk molecule in spite of the absence of effect on her-2 receptor .
 joint treatment of resveratrol and further slightly inhibit mmp-9 expression on zymogram analysis .
 therefore this result do not rule out the possibility that resveratrol also partially inhibit other signaling pathway and far block mmp-9 expression .
 to test the hypothesis that resveratrol effectively suppress cell invasion in part through mmp-9 down-regulation we investigate the inhibitory effect of resveratrol on hrg-1-mediated mmp-9 expression in human breast cancer cell .
 as show in this study resveratrol significantly suppress mmp-9 expression in human breast cancer mcf-7 cell .
 we also find that a low level of resveratrol slightly induce the expression of mmp-9 .
 it might suggest that resveratrol have agonistic effect on er to induce the expression of mmp-9 although we be currently investigate this possibility .
 to further confirm the anticarcinogenic role of resveratrol we investigate the effect of resveratrol on cellular invasion .
 as show in 5 resveratrol significantly inhibit cellular invasion in a dose-dependent manner .
 a recent study suggest that timp gene expression negatively inhibit mmp activity and suppress cell angiogenesis .
 however timp-1 have emerge with a multifunctional role with contrast role of inhibit tissue-degrading enzyme and promote mammary growth .
 to test the important role of timp-1 we examine whether resveratrol affect timp-1 expression to block cell invasion .
 as show in 6 resveratrol have a negligible effect on timp-1 expression in human breast cancer cell .
 we also find that hrg-1 slightly induce the expression of timp-1 .
 it suggest that timp-1 expression might correlate with the activation of her-2 receptor .
 we be currently investigate the molecular mechanism of timp-1 in mammary malignancy .
 we demonstrate that resveratrol suppress mmp-9 expression as well as invasion of breast cancer .
 recent study also indicate that resveratrol also fail to modulate other receptor tyrosine kinase such as vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 .
 it be consistent with finding that resveratrol act as a chemotherapeutic agent in targeting intracellular signaling molecule .
 thus resveratrol regulate mmp-9 activity in part through suppression of mapk 2 signaling pathway .
 previous study have indicate that ap-1-binding site exist in the promoter region of mmp-9 .
 ap-1 transcriptional factor be mainly regulate by the activation of mapk signaling pathway .
 result show that blockade of mapk signaling pathway contribute to the inhibition of mmp-9 expression .
 reduced activation of erk1 2 and mmp-9 by resveratrol correlate with the low level of breast cancer invasion in the present study .
 baur and sinclair recently suggest the anticancer property and therapeutic potential of resveratrol in vivo .
 previous study also indicate that phytochemical compound inhibit tumor angiogenesis and metastasis .
 since resveratrol have long be demonstrate to have anticancer effect it be plausible that a mixture of this grapeseed extract and resveratrol might be much effective than a single compound in suppress tumor growth invasion and metastasis .
 in the present study we demonstrate that resveratrol inhibit mmp-9 expression and blockade of cell invasion in human breast cancer cell .
 resveratrol might act as a therapeutic agent in the inhibition of cancer development .
 this finding provide a novel mechanistic insight into the potential effect of resveratrol on the suppression of tumor invasion and metastasis .
 acknowledgment .
 this material be based on work support in part by a department of health grant under agreement a national science council grant under agreement nsc and a china medical university grant under agreement cmu95-192 .
 we thank chia-hsin shih and chin-hua pan for datum analysis .
 in addition to direct anti-tumour effect there be evidence suggest that inhibition of pkc- and pkc- potentiate the beneficial effect of radiotherapy .
 ionising radiation have be show to activate multiple signal pathway such as egfr igfi-r pi3k mapk jnk p33 and tnf-r pkc be strongly activate during gamma irradiation and play an important role in tumour pathway signal after several study on different cancer cell line have demonstrate that activation of pkc and after gamma irradiation be link to cellular radio-protective response in anti-apoptosis soh et have show that mcf-7 cell in which pkc- and be inhibit through the overexpression of regulatory domain be much sensitive to gamma irradiation than normal cell .
 this work underline the important role of this two isoform in radiotherapy and suggest that the suppression of this isoform may enhance the radiosensitivity of mcf-7 breast cancer .
 enzastaurin be an atp-competitive selective inhibitor of pkc- 6 nmol l and also suppress pkc- 39 nmol l and pkc- nmol l at high enzastaurin in combination with radiotherapy have a synergistic effect against glioma however the molecular mechanism responsible for this synergy require far in the present study we investigate the mechanism by which enzastaurin and gamma irradiation achieve synergy .
 because pkc- and seem to exert radio-protective effect by block apoptosis in human tumour we perform in vivo activity assay on this 3 pkc isoform and evaluate change in pkc cellular localisation after irradiation .
 we also show that combination treatment influence mcf-7 clonogenic cell survival by induce apoptosis through increase activity of caspase-3 and -9 .
 material and .
 cell culture .
 the human breast carcinoma mcf-7 cell line be obtain from american type culture collection atcc manassas va .
 cell be grow in a modify eagle 's minimum essential medium supplement with mg ml bovine insulin and foetal calf serum and be maintain at 37 c in a humidify atmosphere contain co2 .
 clonogenic cell death assay .
 enzastaurin eli lilly and company indianapolis in in the amount of 5 mg be dissolve in 1 ml of dimethyl sulphoxide dmso and store at 4 stock solution be dilute in mcf-7 medium to concentration use in all in vitro experiment range from 1 to 25 cultured mcf-7 cell be pretreated with 5 m of enzastaurin and 3 h later the cell be irradiate with a caesium-137 irradiator model 68 shepherd and associates glenwood at a dose rate of gy min .
 cell be then incubate for 72 h in the drug-containing medium .
 clonogenic cell death assay for treatment group be prepare as previously describe by choi and .
 treatment group .
 cultured mcf-7 cell be harvest and suspend in matrigel becton dickinson bedford ma .
 fifty microliter of the suspension contain tumour cell be inject subcutaneously into the right thigh of female c3h scid mouse .
 seven day after injection when all tumour be palpable mouse be randomised into four group consist of three mouse per group i twice daily oral administration by gavage of enzastaurin at 75 mg kg for 3 day ii single dose of irradiation of the tumour at 25 gy iii the combination of i follow 4 h later by ii and iv vehicle control group receive twice daily oral administration of dmso saline solution for 3 day .
 for irradiation of tumour mouse be anaesthetised with an intraperitoneal injection of a mixture of mg kg ketamine and mg kg xylazine .
 the entire body of a mouse be cover with a 4-mm-thick lead shield with the exception of the tumour area .
 tumour be irradiate with a philip orthovoltage unit philip medical system brookfield wi at a dose of gy min for a total deliver dose of 25 gy .
 animal procedure and care be in compliance with the animal care and use committee at the university of minnesota .
 pkc assay .
 tumour be remove from mouse 4 h after completion of the last treatment and place in 1 ml of ice-cold lysis buffer mm tris hcl ph mm nacl 1 mm na2edta 1 mm egta triton mm sodium pyrophosphate 1 mm beta-glycerophosphate 1 mm na3vo4 1 g ml leupeptin 1 mm pmsf cell signaling boston ma .
 sample be sonicated on ice and centrifuged at rpm for min at 4 protein concentration be determine by biorad protein assay biorad laboratory hercules .
 sample 12 l contain equal amount of protein be use for the detection of pkc activity use protein kinase assay kit emd bioscience darmstadt germany as previously for specific pkc- and isoform activity sample contain g of protein resuspended in l of lysis buffer be incubate for 1 h at 4 c with antibody for pkc- santa cruz biotechnology santa cruz and cell signal boston ma .
 after 1 h incubation l of protein a g plus-agarose santa cruz biotechnology santa cruz be add accord to the manufacturer 's instruction and leave on a rocker overnight .
 after 12 h incubation supernatant be remove and immunoprecipitated pellet be resuspended in l of sample preparation buffer mm tris hcl mm -mercaptoethanol mm egta mm benzamidine 5 mm edta 1 mm pmsf ph .
 pkc isoform be detect in 12 l sample in triplicate use a kinase assay as describe protein concentration be assess by immunoblotting with an actin antibody santa cruz biotechnology santa cruz .
 western blot .
 mcf-7 cell be seed in tissue culture dish mm and pretreated with 5 m of enzastaurin for 3 h prior to irradiation .
 cell be irradiate gy with a caesium-137 irradiator model 68 shepherd and associates glenwood and after that incubate in a drug-containing medium for 24 h before cytosolic membrane and nuclear fraction be separate .
 enzastaurin-only treat sample be collect 27 h after initiation of treatment .
 briefly cell be resuspended in ml ice-cold buffer hepes ph mgcl2 kcl edta sucrose glycerol and sodium orthovanadate and then agitate at c for min and centrifuged at rpm for min .
 the supernatant obtain contain cytoplasmic protein .
 the pellet be resuspended in 1 ml buffer hepes ph mgcl2 kcl edta sucrose glycerol and sodium orthovanadate and again agitate at c for 5 min and centrifuged at rpm for min .
 supernatants be drain and the pellet resuspended in buffer hepes ph mgcl2 nacl edta glycerol and sodium orthovanadate and agitate for min and centrifuged as describe previously .
 nuclear protein dissolve in the supernatant be collect .
 the pellet be again resuspended in buffer hepes ph mgcl2 kcl edta sucrose glycerol sodium deoxycholate sodium orthovanadate 6 ml .
 the solution be again centrifuged and the supernatant-containing membrane protein be remove .
 all buffer use for protein extraction be include in the compartmental protein extraction kit biochain institute hayward .
 protein concentration of the sample be determine use the biorad protein assay biorad laboratory hercules .
 blotting be perform as describe the follow primary antibody be use phospho-pkc- and- antibody santa cruz biotechnology santa cruz egf receptor antibody cell signal boston ma and actin antibody santa cruz biotechnology santa cruz as a quantity control of protein extraction .
 for in vitro study activate phospho-gsk3 cell signal boston ma be use as a control of enzastaurin activity .
 annexin v and 7-aad apoptosis detection assay .
 mcf-7 cell be plate on tissue culture dish mm in fbs medium .
 cell be incubate with 1 3 5 7 m of enzastaurin and be irradiate 3 h later with gy of gamma radiation .
 cell be collect 24 h after irradiation count resuspended in 1 nexin binding buffer guava technology hayward and incubate with 5 l of pe-conjugated annexin v in the presence of 5 l of 7 aminoactinomycin d guava technologie hayward .
 cell be screen by the flow cytometer facscalibur becton dickinson san jose .
 annexin v-pe-positive and 7aad-negative cell be score as early apoptotic cell annexin v-pe-positive and 7aad-positive cell be score as late-stage apoptotic cell .
 camptothecin ng ml be use as a positive control .
 caspase -3 and -9 activity assay .
 caspase-3 and -9 activity be analyse use the caspase-glo luminescent-based assay accord to the manufacturer 's instruction promega corporation medison wi .
 cell be seed into 96 well white opaque plate and a corresponding optically clear 96 well plate .
 cell be allow to adhere overnight and be then treat with enzastaurin solvent vehicle 1 3 5 7 15 or m of enzastaurin and or gy of gamma radiation and incubate for 24 h .
 at the end of the incubation time l of the appropriate caspase-glo reagent be add to each well contain l of a blank negative control or treat cell in culture medium .
 plates be gently mix and incubate for 1 h at room temperature .
 luminescence be then read in a luminometer .
 the corresponding 96 well clear plate be use to measure the number of viable cell with the cck-8 reagent dojindo molecular technology gaithersburg md .
 caspase activity be normalised to this value .
 statistical analysis .
 statistical analysis be perform use one-way anova or unpaired student 's t-test use instat software graphpad software san diego .
 the minimal level of significance be p all experiment be repeat at least three independent time except in vivo study .
 value be express as the mean se .
 .
 clonogenic survival after enzastaurin exposure and irradiation .
 the survival curve of mcf-7 cell treat with various dose of irradiation show an exponential decrease with increase dose of irradiation with a cell survival of at 2 gy at 4 gy at 6 gy and at 8 gy .
 treatment with 5 m of enzastaurin alone for 72 h result in cell survival .
 enzastaurin in combination with irradiation produce a synergistic decline in cell survival of at 2 gy at 4 gy at 6 gy and at 8 gy .
 the extent of cell death cause by enzastaurin and irradiation at every irradiate dose be great than the expect additive effect confirm that enzastaurin synergistically enhance radiation-induced cell death .
 full-size image radiosensitising effect of enzastaurin on the survival of breast cancer cell .
 cultured mcf-7 cell be pretreated with 5 m of enzastaurin and 3 h later be irradiate with a deliver dose of 2 8 gy of radiation .
 cell be then incubate for 72 h in drug-containing medium .
 the survive fraction be assess by colony formation at 14 day after irradiation .
 data be show as the mean se of 9 independent experiment .
 p for each radiation dose group in combination with enzastaurin versus each radiation dose alone .
 view within article .
 apoptosis induction after enzastaurin exposure and irradiation .
 to determine the mode of cell death responsible for cellular radiosensitivity we examine whether apoptotic machinery be activate in mcf-7 cell follow enzastaurin exposure and irradiation .
 mcf-7 cell be stain with annexin v for the detection of externalised phosphatidylserine an indicator of early-stage apoptosis and 7 aminoactinomycin d for the detection of dna fragment an indicator of advanced-stage apoptosis .
 after 24 h treatment enzastaurin alone induce apoptosis in dose of 3 5 and 7 m p versus vehicle control n 3 2a .
 the same enzastaurin dose follow by gy irradiation cause mcf-7 cell to undergo a high rate of programme cell death p for each combination treatment group versus each concentration of enzastaurin alone 2a .
 the difference of much than in the rate of apoptosis be consider evidence point towards the synergistic activity of enzastaurin at dose of 3 5 and 7 this result confirm that the synergy in cytotoxicity achieve with enzastaurin and irradiation be trigger in a dose-dependent fashion through the induction of apoptosis .
 full-size image 77k radiosensitising effect of enzastaurin on apoptosis activation .
 mcf-7 cell be pretreated with different enzastaurin concentration 3 h prior to irradiation with gy and be then incubate for 24 a induction of cell apoptosis be detect use pe-conjugated annexin v and 7 aminoactinomycin d staining .
 damaged cell annexin v-pe negative 7-aad positive upper leave .
 late apoptotic cell annexin v-pe positive 7-aad positive upper-right .
 live cell annexin v-pe negative 7-aad negative low leave .
 early apoptotic cell annexin v-pe positive 7-aad negative low right .
 data be representative of three independent experiment .
 treatment effect on caspase-3 b and caspase-9 c activity be assess an average of three experiment with six replicate be perform with datum show as 1 se .
 p versus untreated control versus gy group .
 view within article .
 caspase-3 and -9 activity after enzastaurin exposure and irradiation .
 caspase-3 be significantly increase in mcf-7 cell treat with enzastaurin dose between 5 m and m p versus vehicle control fig 2b .
 at the high concentration of m caspase-3 activity be fold high than vehicle control .
 caspase-3 activity be far increase in cell pretreated with enzastaurin before irradiation at drug dose above 1 m p versus gy irradiation alone 2b with the high dose of m result in caspase-3 activity that be fold high than vehicle control or irradiation alone .
 induction of caspase-9 which be usually activate prior to caspase-3 show increase activity in treatment combination .
 enzastaurin alone significantly increase the activity of caspase-9 by fold at 3 m and fold at m as compare to vehicle control .
 combination treatment utilising drug concentration of 3 m with gy of radiation significantly increase caspase-9 activity from fold to fold respectively as compare to radiation alone p versus gy irradiation alone .
 irradiation with alone do not cause a significant increase in caspase-3 or -9 activity as compare to vehicle control after a 24 h incubation period .
 cytosol and membrane bind pkc- and after enzastaurin exposure and irradiation .
 western blot of pkc- and pkc- indicate that enzastaurin have an inhibitory effect on this pkc isoform in the cytosolic and membrane fraction of mcf-7 cell .
 both pkc isoform be also inhibit by combination treatment .
 irradiation with gy have no effect on either isoform 's activity in mcf-7 cell in either cellular locale at 24 h after irradiation .
 full-size image 29k enzastaurin inhibit pkc- and isoform in both cytosolic and membrane fraction .
 mcf-7 sample be collect 24 h after in vitro drug exposure and irradiation .
 cell lysate be separate and immunoblotted use a pkc- and b pkc- antibody .
 actin and egfr be use as loading control in cytosol and membrane lysate respectively n 3 .
 view within article .
 enzastaurin reverse radiation-induced activity of pkc- and -ii in vivo .
 to elucidate the pkc inhibitory effect of enzastaurin three of the much important anti-apoptotic pkc isoform and ii be test in vivo .
 irradiation with 25 gy alone significantly induce an increase in pkc-ii activity of p versus untreated control 4a .
 enzastaurin alone inhibit the ii isoform by 62 p versus untreated control 4a .
 there be no statistical difference between the untreated group and combination treatment group p 4a however there be a significant difference between the irradiate group and combination treatment group p 4a indicate that enzastaurin reverse the radiation-induced activity of pkc-ii .
 similar pattern of kinase activity be see for pkc- pkc- and total pkc .
 a notable difference in the pattern of pkc isoform response be see for pkc- activity which increase by 245 in response to irradiation p versus untreated control 4c .
 in addition a statistical difference be observe in total pkc activity between untreated control and the combination treatment group p .
 as a control for quantitative protein concentration use in this experiment a western blot be do use an actin antibody .
 full-size image 49k enzastaurin reverse radiation-induced activity of pkc- and -ii in mcf-7 human tumour xenograft .
 mice be pretreated with enzastaurin 75 mg kg twice daily and irradiate with 25 gy at one time .
 seventy-two hour post irradiation tumour be extract lysate immunoprecipitated and use for pkc activity a pkc-ii b pkc- c pkc- and d total-pkc activity .
 unpaired t-test be use to compare significant change between group .
 three mouse be use per treatment group sample be prepare in triplicate bar se p versus vehicle control versus irradiation alone .
 actin be use for a quantitative control of protein amount show in 5 .
 view within article .
 full-size image 34k enzastaurin inhibitory effect on phosphorylation of gsk3 in vivo .
 seventy-two hour post irradiation tumour be extract and lysate use for the detection of phospho-gsk3 status .
 actin be use for a quantitative control of protein amount .
 histograms show the relative optical density of phosphorylated gsk3 .
 view within article .
 enzastaurin suppress phosphorylation of gsk3 in vivo .
 pkc activity have be connect to different signal pathway such as glycogen synthase-3 kinase gsk3 akt ras and erk1 however graff et have report that the suppression of phosphorylated gsk3p gsk3 be an early event of enzastaurin activity in both in vitro and in vivo inhibition of this pathway have be suggest as a pharmacodynamic marker for enzastaurin activity .
 to determine how enzastaurin and gamma irradiation may influence the phosphorylation status of gsk3 western blot analysis be perform use the same sample use for the pkc activity assay .
 the optical density measurement of p-gsk3 show an inhibitory effect in the enzastaurin-treated group as well as in the combination treatment group .
 irradiation with 25 gy result in minimal change in the expression of p-gsk3 as compare to vehicle control .
 discussion .
 pkc have become a therapeutic target for treat different malignancy .
 the pkc inhibitor enzastaurin have already be test in clinical trial on patient with diffuse large b-cell lymphoma and lung and head-and-neck in preclinical trial in mx-1 human breast carcinoma tumour xenograft teicher and colleague have show a tumour response to radiotherapy and enzastaurin in the present study we show that enzastaurin when combine with gamma irradiation therapy have a synergistic pro-apoptotic radiosensitising effect in mcf-7 human cancer cell line in vitro .
 we also demonstrate in an in vivo model that enzastaurin reverse the radiation-induced activation of three different anti-apoptotic isoform of pkc .
 nakajima and colleague and kim and colleague conclude in their in vitro study that the activation of two isoform of pkc and which occur shortly after irradiation be critical for the regulation of radiation-induced apoptosis in radiation-sensitive in in vitro study we demonstrate that both pkc isoform be inhibit in the cytosolic and membrane fraction of mcf-7 cell in response to enzastaurin treatment and irradiation .
 irradiation with gy alone do not cause any change in pkc activity in either cellular locale confirm the result of nakajima and colleague in thymic lymphoma consistent with in vitro result we detect elevate activity for three pkc isoform in mcf-7 tumour xenograft 72 h after gamma irradiation .
 notably pkc- activity be dramatically increase in response to gamma irradiation 25 gy compare to pkc- and -ii .
 this suggest that the isoform may be critical to the anti-apoptotic mechanism of radioresistance in mcf-7 breast cancer cell .
 soh and colleague suggest that both pkc- and pkc- play important role in the upregulation of bcl-2 and p21 protein expression cause an increase in cell survival and inhibition of other observation have show that overexpression of pkc- be strongly involve in malignant cell transformation in animal inhibition of pkc- have be link to the inhibition of vegf-dependent mapk activation suggest that block this isoform may have a positive antiangiogentetic effect on metastasis and tumour result clearly show that enzastaurin influence the activity of pkc- -ii and isoform in vivo and provide a rational explanation of the molecular pathway in which enzastaurin may render mcf-7 tumour xenograft much sensitive to gamma irradiation .
 treatment of mcf-7 cell in vitro with enzastaurin synergistically interact with ionising radiation in cause clonogenic cell death .
 in contrast to previous study on 4t1 rodent breast cancer we have show that enzastaurin treatment synergistically induce mcf-7 cell apoptosis in combination with gamma irradiation as detect by annexinv-pi staining .
 although combination treatment only have an additive effect on caspase-3 and -9 activity 2a and b this effect be consistent with previous finding show that caspase activity be at least partially require for enzastaurin-induced cell .
 in vitro and in vivo study on the mcf-7 human breast cancer cell line clearly show that enzastaurin be a radiosensitising agent mostly through the inhibition of the radiation-induced activity of pkc- .
 based on the promising anti-tumour effect of this combination therapy we believe that far study of the radiosensitising effect of enzastaurin be warrant .
 conflict of interest statement .
 piotr jasinski kaoru terai and pawel zwolak declare that there be no conflict of interest relate to this arkadiusz dudek be a member of the speakers bureau for eli lilly and company .
 acknowledgement .
 this study be partially support by the experimental therapeutic fund of the university of minnesota we be grateful to audrey and dennis anderson for ongoing support for this fund .
 we would like to thank michael franklin for editorial support .
 incidence rate of breast cancer be increase in much country particularly in asia with annual increase in incidence as compare to in the rest of the world .
 the incidence of breast cancer be rise alarmingly particularly in develop country such as india .
 the molecular mechanism underlie breast carcinogenesis be not understand completely .
 cell line provide an unlimited self-replicating source of cell that can be widely distribute to facilitate comparative study .
 continuous cell line establish from primary tumour provide important experimental system for study the biology and genetic change associate with tumour initiation and progression .
 since the establishment of the first human breast carcinoma cell line in 1958 many attempt have be make to establish permanent breast tumour cell line .
 however only limited success have be achieve in cultivate long-term epithelial cell culture from human primary breast tumour gazdar et 1998 and wang et .
 to date the majority of breast cancer derived cell line have be obtain from secondary tumour and pleural effusion of patient with advance stage breast cancer .
 the culture establish from secondary deposit be those collect late in the development of disease by which time there may have be a modification of the original tumour .
 although about human breast cancer line have be describe in the literature the number of breast tumour cell line that have be adequately characterised and be widely use be only about engel and young 1978 and lacroix and leclercq .
 herein we report the establishment and characterisation of two oestrogen receptor negative breast cancer cell line one from a familial and the other from a sporadic primary breast carcinoma .
 material and .
 tissue specimen and establishment of primary culture .
 breast carcinoma tissue be collect and process for set up the primary explant culture as describe previously except that this culture be propagate in dmem f12 medium .
 the culture be monitor for cell growth and propagate by periodic sub-culturing by trypsinisation .
 purification of epithelial cell .
 the epithelial cell population be enrich by differential trypsinisation as describe previously kaur and ralhan and rohatgi et .
 thereafter fibroblast overgrowth be reduce by selective chemical elimination use geneticin g418 sulphate g ml gibco brl grand island ny as describe by .
 epithelial cell be then purify use macs epithelial column milteny biotech gmbh germany .
 this eluted purify epithelial cell be plate in a culture flask contain dmem f12 gibco invitrogen cell culture grand island ny medium supplement with fbs gibco invitrogen cell culture crystallised bovine insulin 5 g ml sigma aldrich bangalore india epidermal growth factor ng ml gibco invitrogen cell culture and propagate regularly .
 the cell be maintain in medium supplement with growth factor until the 12th passage after which growth factor be withdraw gradually from the medium .
 the cell be grow without growth factor after the 18th passage .
 light and electron microscopic analysis .
 breast cancer cell at various passage be examine and photograph use an inverted phase-contrast microscope olympus tokyo japan .
 cell grow on coverslip be fix with glutaraldehyde in m sodium cacodylate buffer ph and process for cell surface characterisation by scanning electron microscopy sem leo field emission scanning electron microscope see kaur and ralhan .
 cell in monolayer be fix with glutaraldehyde in m sodium cacodylate buffer ph and process for examine internal cell structure use a transmission electron microscope tem see kaur and ralhan and rohatgi et .
 growth rate and colony formation in soft agar .
 cell be plate in triplicate at a cell density of cell per well in a 24 well plate .
 cell be trypsinised and cell number be count use a haemocytometer at regular time interval 24 168 h .
 growth curve be plot and double time calculate from the exponential phase .
 anchorage-independent growth be assess by suspend cell in 1 ml w v soft agar difco laboratory detroit mi usa layer over w v base agar in 35 mm dish .
 agar be supplement with dmem f12 and fbs .
 formation of colony be determine by inverted microscopy at 2 and 4 week post-seeding .
 immunocytochemistry .
 cell grow on coverslip be fix with acetone and process for immunocytochemical analysis .
 briefly cell be immunolabelled with primary antibody 1 g ml follow by biotinylated secondary antibody g ml dako produktionsvej glostrup denmark .
 they be incubate with streptavidin conjugate horseradish peroxidase hrp and the colour develop use diaminobenzidine dab as the chromogen .
 slide be counterstained with mayer 's haematoxylin mount with dpx mountant and examine under a light microscope .
 mutational analysis of tp53 .
 genomic dna be isolate from bca-11 and bca-15 cell by the standard phenol chloroform method .
 polymerase chain reaction pcr amplify product encompass exon 5 6 7 8 and 9 of the tp53 gene which harbour mutational hotspots be analyse for mutation by direct automate sequencing abi prism 377 sequencer applied biosystems foster city usa .
 rt-pcr analysis of dnmt1 dnmt3a dnmt3b brca1 and brca2 expression .
 total rna be prepare use trizol reagent invitrogen rockville md .
 five micrograms of total rna be reverse-transcribed use 18 mer oligodeoxythymidylate and mmlv invitrogen in a volume of l .
 two microlitres of cdna template be subject to pcr amplification use -actin as a control of cdna integrity .
 pcr be carry out with 2 l of cdna use primer specific for dnmt1 dnmt3a dnmt3b brca1 and brca2 use the condition mention elsewhere chan et magdinier et and mizuno et .
 bisulphite treatment and methylation specific pcr .
 genomic dna be isolate from the cell use the phenol chloroform method and subject to bisulphite treatment as describe previously .
 methylation specific pcr be carry out use ng of bisulphite treat dna in a pcr mixture contain mm ammonium sulphate 67 mm tris ph mm mgcl2 mm -mercaptoethanol mm each dntp and primer m each in a 25 l reaction .
 reaction be hot start at 95 c for 5 min before the addition of u of taq polymerase .
 the sequence of the primer purchase from microsynth use for each gene be list below brca1 methylate forward 5-tcg tgg taa cgg aaa agc gc -3 reverse 5-aaa tct caa cga act cac gcc g-3 product size 75 bp unmethylated forward 5-ttg gtt ttt gtg gta atg gaa aag-3 reverse 5- caa aaa atc tca aca aac tca cac ca-3 product size 86 bp rar2 methylate forward 5-tcg aga acg cga gcg att cg-3 reverse 5-gac caa tcc aac cga aac ga-3 product size 145 bp unmethylated forward 5-aac caa tcc aac caa aac aa-3 reverse 5-ttg aga atg tga gtg att tga-3 product size 146 bp hoxa5 methylate forward 5-ttt agc ggt ggc gtt cg-3 reverse 5-ata cga ctt cga atc acg ta-3 product size 183 bp unmethylated forward 5-ttg gtg aag ttg ggt g-3 reverse 5-aat aca act tca aat cac ata c -3 product size 213 bp rassf1a methylate forward 5-gtt ggt att cgt tgg gcg c-3 reverse 5-gca cca cgt ata cgt aac g -3 product size bp unmethylated forward 5-ggt tgt att tgg ttg gag tg-3 reverse 5-cta caa acc ttt aca cac aac a-3 product size bp .
 .
 establishment of novel human breast cancer cell line .
 bca breast carcinoma -11 be establish from a 65 year female patient diagnose with in situ ductal carcinoma of the breast .
 the patient have a family history of breast cancer .
 bca breast carcinoma -15 derived from a year female with stage iib invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast .
 epithelial cell emerge from the tissue piece within 7 day of initiation of the culture .
 after 14 day the primary culture be confluent fibroblast be remove and epithelial cell be purify as describe in section 2 .
 bca-11 and bca-15 cell show epithelioid morphology when observe under the light microscope .
 bca-15 cell grow rapidly in vitro .
 the confluent cell grow in multilayers which be suggestive of a loss of contact inhibition a characteristic of transform cell .
 bca-11 cell be in the 28th passage while bca-15 cell be in the passage .
 full-size image 144k breast cancer cell line bca-11 and bca-15 during a breast cell emerge from the tissue chunk within 7 day of culturing b population of bca-11 cell after epithelial cell purification use macs a and b original magnification .
 c bca-15 culture on day 6 depict emergence of different cell type from the tissue d population of bca-15 cell after epithelial cell purification use macs column .
 note that when allow to grow to confluency cell form multilayers indicate loss of contact c and d original magnification .
 view within article .
 characterisation of the cell .
 ultrastructural analysis .
 to verify the epithelial characteristic of the establish cell ultrastructure analysis be carry out .
 scanning electron microscopy reveal irregular cell surface morphology with tubular intercellular cell to cell connect structure for both cell line .
 this cell also show fusiform structure with long slender cytoplasmic process and microvilli on the cell surface .
 full-size image 216k ultrastructural analysis of establish breast cancer cell line by electron microscopy .
 scanning electron micrographs of a bca-11 original magnification and b bca-15 original magnification .
 this cell line display irregular cell surface with intercellular connect structure and few microvilli as indicate by arrowhead in combination with the letter c and m respectively .
 transmission electron micrographs of c bca-11 original magnification and d bca-15 original magnification reveal cytoplasmic filament arrow cf within the cell cell to cell attachment by tight junction arrow tj and microvilli arrow m on the cell surface .
 view within article .
 transmission electron microscopic evaluation reveal polygonal bca-11 cell connect to each other by tight junction .
 few microvilli be locate on the cell surface .
 furthermore bundle of cytoplasmic tonofilaments be also observe .
 electron micrographs of bca-15 cell reveal few well-developed desmosomes and cytoplasmic filament .
 expression of epithelial marker .
 epithelial membrane antigen ema and cytokeratin be express by much epithelial cancer cell and serve as epithelial marker .
 immunocytochemical analysis of bca-11 and bca-15 cell demonstrate the presence of epithelial membrane antigen ema and pan-cytokeratins contain cytokeratin 4 5 6 13 and 18 confirm the epithelial origin of this culture .
 full-size image 167k immunocytochemical analysis of establish breast cancer cell line .
 epithelial membrane antigen ema pancytokeratins and vimentin in bca-11 and bca1-15 cell respectively original magnification .
 view within article .
 bca-11 cell be immunonegative for vimentin .
 however bca-15 cell show the presence of vimentin a mesenchymal cell marker .
 the co-expression of marker of mesenchymal and epithelial lineage be suggestive of epithelial metaplastic transition emt in bca-15 cell .
 growth characteristic .
 population double time of this cell line be determine by the trypan blue exclusion method by count cell number at different time period .
 bca-11 cell grow slowly in culture with a population double time of 96 h .
 bca-15 cell grow much rapidly with a population double time of h datum not show .
 confluent bca-15 cell grow in multilayers suggestive of loss of contact inhibition a characteristic of transform cell .
 bca-11 cell be in the 28th passage while bca-15 cell be in the passage .
 next bca-11 and bca-15 cell be grow under substratum independent condition to assess growth potential in anchorage free environment .
 both culture grow in agar as progressively enlarge colony demonstrate anchorage independent growth .
 the human breast cancer cell line mcf-7 use as positive control form colony in soft agar while the human non-malignant breast cell line use as a negative control do not form any colony in soft agar .
 bca-15 form large colony as compare to that of bca-11 and the colony form by both this culture contain on average 75 and 65 cell per colony respectively as compare to mcf7 colony with 85 cell .
 full-size image 57k photomicrograph of colony form in soft agar .
 cell be plate in soft agar and observe for colony formation .
 the experiment be do twice in triplicate .
 bca-11 bca-15 and mcf7 positive control form colony in soft agar show anchorage-independent growth characteristic of the cell whereas the non-malignant breast cell line do not form colony indicate anchorage dependent growth .
 view within article .
 mutational analysis .
 mutational analysis of tp53 gene exon 5 9 show wild type sequence for both the cell line bca-11 and bca-15 .
 rt-pcr analysis of brca1 and brca2 transcript .
 brca1 gene expression be reduce in many sporadic breast cancer rice et 1998 and rice et .
 therefore the mrna level be analyse to determine if there be any reduction in the level of brca1 and brca2 transcript by rt-pcr use gene specific primer .
 brca1 and brca2 transcript be observe in both bca-11 and bca-15 cell .
 this suggest that alteration in brca1 and brca2 expression may not be critically involve in the tumourigenic process in this cell line .
 full-size image 18k brca1 and brca2 transcript in breast cancer cell line .
 both bca-11 and bca-15 cell line show expression of brca1 and brca2 mrna albeit at different -actin be use as an internal control in the respective cell line .
 lane nc negative control lane l bp dna ladder .
 view within article .
 expression of biological marker .
 expression of various cell cycle regulatory gene cell surface receptor oncogene tumour suppressor gene product brca1 er p53 her2 neu rar hoxa5 dab2 p21cip1 waf1 cyclind1 p16ink4a prb and ki67 be analyse to gain insight into the molecular mechanism s involve in breast carcinogenesis in this cell line .
 the expression status of this protein in bca-11 and bca-15 cell line be summarised in table .
 table .
 immunocytochemical analysis of molecular marker .
 proteinscell line bca-11bca-15mcf7 brca1positive c faint nuclearpositive c positive p53negativenegativenegative eranegativenegativepositive her2 neunegativenegativepositive rarnegativepositivenegative hoxa5negativenegativepositive dab2reducednegativenegative p21cip1 waf1positivepositivenegative p16ink4anegativepositivenegative prbnegativenegativenegative cyclin d1positivenegativepositive ki67positivepositivepositive .
 full-size table .
 c cytoplasmic .
 a er be consider positive only when nuclear immunopositivity be observe .
 cytoplasmic staining of er be consider negative .
 view within article .
 expression of dna methyl transferases dnmts expression of dnmts be elevate in many cancer de marzo et 1999 el-deiry et 1991 girault et mizuno et and robertson et 1999 .
 hence we analyse expression of dnmts in bca-11 and bca-15 and transcript level be compare with those in the breast cancer cell line mcf7 and the non-malignant mammary cell line .
 dnmt1 dnmt3a and dnmt3b transcript be amplify use gene specific primer .
 housekeeping gene -actin be use as control for normalisation .
 both the cell line show expression of dnmt1 dnmt3a and dnmt3b .
 dnmt1 and dnmt3b transcript level be elevate in this cell line similar to the breast cancer cell line mcf7 when compare with the non-malignant breast cell line .
 full-size image 28k expression of dnmts transcript in breast cell line .
 dnmts transcript be over express in breast cancer cell line mcf7 bca-11 and bca-15 as compare to non-malignant cell line mcf particularly dnmt3b transcript be elevate in breast cancer cell line .
 lane nc negative control lane l bp dna ladder .
 view within article .
 table .
 relative ratio of dnmts expression in the breast cancer cell line .
 cell linednmt1dnmt3adnmt3b .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 epigenetic alteration .
 promoter methylation be one of the mechanism of silence tumour suppressor gene that exist in neoplastic cell .
 therefore we carry out promoter methylation analysis of brca1 rar2 rassf1a and hoxa5 gene which be commonly know to be methylate in breast cancer .
 methylation specific pcr analysis of this gene promoter have show that rar2 and rassf1a promoter be methylate in bca-11 cell while mono-allelic methylation of hoxa5 be observe in this cell .
 in bca-15 both rassf1a and hoxa5 gene promoter be methylate while the rar2 promoter be unmethylated .
 brca1 promoter and dab2 exon 1 be unmethylated in both cell line .
 for comparison breast cancer cell line mcf7 and the non-malignant cell line mcf be also analyse .
 rassf1a and rar2 be methylate in the breast cancer cell line mcf7 while the non-malignant breast cell line do not show promoter methylation of the gene analyse in this study .
 full-size image promoter methylation status of breast cell a rar2 methylation product size 145 bp m 146 bp um b rassf1a methylation product size bp m bp um c hoxa5 methylation product size 183 bp m 213 bp um d brca1 methylation product size 75 bp m 86 bp um e dab2 methylation product size 145 bp m 153 bp um .
 lane nc negative control lane l bp dna ladder m methylate u unmethylated .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 two breast cancer cell line bca-11 and bca-15 one with family history of breast cancer and the other from a sporadic breast carcinoma be establish from oestrogen receptor negative tumour .
 to knowledge the familial breast cancer cell line we have establish be one of the few in vitro model of familial origin to date .
 therefore this cell line will provide new experimental model for study hereditary breast cancer and also for understand the molecular pathogenesis of er negative breast cancer .
 both cell line bca-11 and bca-15 be establish from post-menopausal patient and be of ductal origin .
 one of the culture bca-11 be establish from a patient with ductal carcinoma in situ and a family history of breast cancer .
 carcinoma in situ be an early stage cancer and therefore it be difficult to establish a cell line from this stage .
 intriguingly although this culture be establish from an in situ ductal carcinoma the cell lack oestrogen receptor p16ink4a and prb .
 the epithelial nature of the cell line be establish by morphological characteristic and marker of epithelial origin such as epithelial membrane antigen ema and cytokeratin .
 cytokeratin be the intermediate filament characteristically express in epithelial cell .
 the presence of intercellular connect structure and well develop desmosomes observe by electron microscopy suggest the epithelial nature of this cell line .
 the presence of intermediate filament and tonofilaments far support epithelial phenotype .
 the interact meshwork form by keratin filament and desmosomes on the plasma membrane produce an integrate network throughout the epithelial tissue .
 however one of the cell line bca-15 also show expression of the mesenchymal cell marker vimentin suggest partial transition of epithelial to mesenchymal cell type call metaplastic transition kiemer et and savagner .
 hence this culture may be classify as a metaplastic cancer cell line .
 vimentin expression in epithelial cell have be report to be a marker of high grade malignancy .
 co-expression of vimentin with keratin be often see in epithelial cancer cell line where the two kind of filament segregate into distinct network .
 both cell line establish in this study show an anchorage-independent growth pattern a characteristic feature of transform cell .
 anchorage-independence be strongly correlated with tumourigenicity and invasiveness in several cell type .
 furthermore this cell grow in multilayers suggestive of a loss of contact inhibition .
 taken together this characteristic feature be indicative of malignant potential .
 the role of p53 p21 and p16ink4a cyclind1 pathway in cell cycle regulation have be well establish sherr and mccormick and simin et .
 hence we study the expression of protein involve in this pathway .
 interestingly we observe the loss of important target protein of the cell cycle regulatory pathway namely prb p16ink4a and increase expression of cyclin d1 in bca-11 cell suggestive of a deregulated prb cyclin d1 pathway which may give a growth advantage to this cell .
 bca-15 cell show a defect in only one of the component of this pathway loss of prb .
 nevertheless this result suggest that deregulation of the prb p16 pathway might account for or at least contribute to loss of growth control thereby lead to neoplastic transformation of this two cell line .
 tp53 be a key tumour suppressor gene involve in the regulation of many cellular pathway such as cell cycle regulation dna damage repair and be mutate in many cancer include breast cancer .
 therefore we additionally analyse tp53 mutation in the establish cell line .
 sequencing tp53 exon 5-9 in bca-11 and bca-15 cell reveal that this cell line harbour wild type tp53 sequence for this exon which bear the vast majority of cancer-related mutation .
 mutation if any exist in the tp53 gene may lie outside this region .
 furthermore undetectable p53 protein expression by immunocytochemistry and expression of p21cip1 waf1 protein a downstream target of p53 be suggestive of the existence of wild type p53 and the functionality of the p53 p21 pathway in this cell .
 both the cell line show no detectable expression of er in the nucleus however cytoplasmic accumulation be observe which be consistent with the characteristic of er negative breast cancer cell review by .
 furthermore both cell line show cytoplasmic localisation of brca1 protein the non-availability of the protein in the nucleus of bca-15 cell or reduce nuclear expression in bca-11 cell implicate defect in dna repair pathway which may eventually lead to accumulation of genetic defect in this cell .
 overexpression of cytoplasmic bard1 mediate the cytoplasmic sequestration of brca1 in breast cancer .
 furthermore aberrant expression of bard1 in breast and ovarian cancer have be correlated with poor prognosis .
 whether bard1 be involve in the cytoplasmic sequestration of brca1 protein in bca-11 and bca-15 cell remain to be determine .
 dna methylation pattern in mammalian cell be establish during embryogenesis and be not alter upon differentiation into somatic cell reik and dean and surani .
 however this genome-wide methylation pattern be alter in cancer cell .
 thus hypomethylation of cpg repeat and hypermethylation of cpg island be common phenomenon occur in much of the cancer baylin et 1998 and jones and laird 1999 .
 dna methylation be catalysed by the family of protein call dna methyltransferases dnmts .
 dnmt1 be the maintenance enzyme that prefer hemi-methylated substrate and may be responsible for establish methylation pattern in a template dependent manner during dna replication .
 dnmt3a and dnmt3b be consider de novo methyltransferases based on ability to modify totally unmethylated dna in vitro .
 expression of this dnmts be alter in different human cancer de marzo et 1999 eads et 1999 el-deiry et 1991 girault et kanai et lee et 1996 lin et mizuno et robertson et 1999 and schmutte et 1996 .
 we compare the expression of dnmts in breast cancer cell line of indian origin .
 transcript level of all three dnmts in this cancer cell line be comparable with the malignant cell line mcf7 and be high compare to the non-malignant cell line .
 much strikingly we observe that dnmt1 and dnmt3b be substantially overexpressed in the malignant cell line compare to the non-malignant line .
 increased expression of dnmt1 protein in different breast cancer cell line have also be report by .
 additionally and claus and lubbert notice increase level of dnmts particularly that of dnmt3b in breast tumour specimen .
 in a parallel study we observe that a high dnmt3b 3a ratio associate with a high methylation index of a cell line unpublished datum .
 both culture describe in the present work show a high dnmt3b 3a ratio .
 this result far suggest deregulation of epigenetic pathway in this cell similar to other cancer cell line .
 promoter hypermethylation of rassf1a rar2 hoxa5 and brca1 occur frequently in breast cancer cell but not in non-malignant mammary epithelial cell issa and raman et .
 detailed analysis of the tp53 promoter have reveal the presence of several consensus binding site for the homeobox protein hoxa5 and this be responsive to hoxa5 .
 expression of hoxa5 be significantly reduce in a high proportion of primary breast carcinoma which be attributable to aberrant methylation of the hoxa5 promoter .
 by limit basal expression of tp53 mrna epigenetic silence of hoxa5 thus represent a novel and important mechanism by which p53 signal be attenuate in breast cancer .
 hence we specifically analyse promoter hypermethylation of this gene in both bca-11 and bca-15 cell .
 promoter hypermethylation of rassf1a rar2 and hoxa5 gene find in this cell suggest firstly the involvement of promoter hypermethylation mediate silence of this gene in the neoplastic transformation of this cell and secondly support neoplastic origin of this cell line .
 however brca1 promoter hypermethylation not be detect in this cell which be compatible with detection of protein via immunohistochemistry .
 it have be suggest that culturing of cell with loss of brca1 may be extremely difficult which in part may explain the absence of brca1 promoter methylation in this cell line .
 however brca1 methylation have be observe in sporadic breast tumour catteau et 1999 esteller et and matros et and in a parallel study in primary breast tumour in the author 's laboratory datum not show .
 expression of brca1 may be essential for survival of the cell and hence promoter be unmethylated in breast cancer cell line .
 furthermore disruption of the homologous mouse gene brca1 and brca2 by targeting show that nullizygous embryo become developmentally retarded disorganised and die early in development suggest that this gene be both indispensable during embryogenesis .
 dab2 methylation not be observe in either of the cell line establish in the present study and mcf7 .
 in a parallel study carried-out in the author 's laboratory dab2 methylation be observe in a few establish breast cancer cell line similar to that observe in the present study .
 in conclusion we report the establishment and characterisation of two cell line that will serve as in vitro model for understanding mechanism underlie familial and sporadic breast carcinogenesis .
 this cell line also provide a model for design and test new drug for a large proportion of breast tumour which be negative for er and her2 neu and require novel drug for effective management .
 acknowledgement .
 the author express gratitude to shashi wadhwa and to the staff of the electron microscope facility at the all india institute of medical science for support and help in conduct the ultrastructural analysis .
 we be immensely grateful to lisa wiesmller from ulm germany for expert advice and suggestion on prepare the manuscript .
 this study be support by the indo-german grant of the indian council of medical research new delhi india the dlr germany .
 raju bagadi be thankful to the council for scientific and industrial research for the award of the junior research fellowship and senior research fellowship .
 cancer be heterogeneous in composition and be organize in a hierarchy that include cell competent to recreate the tumor on transplantation designate tumor initiate cell t-ic or cancer stem cell and other cell comprise the bulk tumor mass .
 following the first hit whether it occur within a stem or much differentiate cell secondary event of genetic or epigenetic nature contribute to evolution of malignancy .
 access to this early step in cancer formation be impossible in patient .
 animal model provide a window into this phase of cancer development but be likely to be relevant to human biology only so far as the genetic event mirror those occur in patient .
 in consider this issue we have seek to apply to a cancer of epithelial origin principle that have prove successful in the study of hematopoietic malignancy .
 for leukemia and childhood sarcoma chromosomal translocation lead to the production of chimeric protein serve as initiate genetic event .
 although some gene rearrangement associate with leukemia be rare study of this infrequent event have define transcription factor critical for normal differentiation and pathway much generally perturbed in malignancy .
 until lately the contribution of chromosomal rearrangement to epithelial cancer have be view as minor .
 recently chromosomal rearrangement involve the ets family transcription factor be identify in case of human prostate cancer tomlins et tomlins et and tomlins et .
 furthermore an eml4-alk fusion gene be identify in of non-small-cell lung cancer case .
 this observation prompt reassessment of conclusion regard the involvement of chromosomal rearrangement in epithelial cancer .
 t be a unique recurrent chromosomal translocation associate with cancer of all germ layer include human secretory breast carcinoma sbc congenital fibrosarcoma congenital mesoblastic nephroma knezevich et 1998a and rubin et 1998 and acute myelogenous leukemia .
 it produce a fusion oncogene etv6-ntrk3 en which encode a chimeric protein make up of the oligomerization domain of etv6 also know as tel an ets family transcription factor and the protein tyrosine kinase ptk domain of ntrk3 also know as trkc a trk family tyrosine kinase receptor for neurotrophin-3 .
 the consistent presence of this translocation in human sbc provide strong genetic epidemiological support for role in the initiation of breast cancer .
 breast cancer be representative of other epithelial malignancy in heterogeneity both genetically and clinically .
 in part phenotypic heterogeneity may reflect diverse cellular origin of different subtype of breast cancer .
 here we report a murine model of human sporadic breast cancer based on the en translocation .
 we demonstrate that two commit mammary progenitor in the normal mammary developmental hierarchy serve as target cell of breast cancer .
 in addition by perform microarray analysis we reveal that en-initiated transformation be mediate largely through activation of the c-jun fosl1 ap1 complex .
 result generating the etv6-ntrk3 conditional knockin allele .
 we generate a cre-lox en knockin allele by introduce the portion of human ntrk3 cdna encode the ptk domain as find in sbc patient into exon 6 of the mouse etv6 locus .
 we render this fusion allele conditional by insertion of a floxed transcriptional terminator sequence stopper mao et 1999 figure 1a into the intron upstream of the knockin ntrk3 cdna .
 the result allele once activate by cre-mediated excision of the floxed stopper produce a mouse etv6-human ntrk3 hybrid protein which transform nih 3t3 cell datum not show .
 therefore the en knockin allele recapitulate the chimeric protein see in patient .
 full-size image 61k high-quality image 484k figure generating the etv6-ntrk3 conditional knockin allele .
 a schematic diagram of the endogenous wt etv6 allele the etv6-ntrk3 en conditional knockin allele the activate en allele upon cre-mediated excision of the floxed neo-stopper cassette st stopper and the en fusion protein produce from the activate en allele .
 the 5 and 3 probe for southern blot be show .
 x xhoi s spei a apai e ecorv n noti vi vii viii exon 6 7 and 8 of etv6 p a poly a signal sam pnt sterile alpha motif point domain ptk protein tyrosine kinase domain .
 b southern blot screen and confirmation of correctly targeted es cell clone .
 the 5 probe recognize a kb xhoi fragment from the wt etv6 allele a kb xhoi fragment due to incomplete digestion of noti and an 11 kb xhoi-noti fragment complete digestion from the en knockin allele .
 the 3 probe recognize a kb ecorv fragment from the wt allele and a kb ecorv fragment from the en allele .
 c rt-pcr analysis show greatly elevate expression of the en fusion transcript from the stopper-excised es cell .
 note that en have slightly leaky expression in the parental en28 es cell without excision of the stopper .
 d western blot show detection of the en fusion protein tyrosine phosphorylated doublet from the stopper-excised es cell but not from the parental en28 es cell .
 en-3t3 cell be use as the positive control .
 view within article .
 we identify correctly targeted es cell clone use southern blot .
 by rt-pcr we find en es cell without excision exhibit slightly leaky expression of the en allele but removal of the stopper greatly increase expression .
 at the protein level no en fusion protein be detect in unexcised es cell .
 however expression be readily visible from stopper-excised es cell .
 thus the en conditional knockin allele function as design .
 the endogenous etv6 locus i active in mammary epithelial cell .
 because en be under the control of the endogenous etv6 promoter we first examine where etv6 be normally express in mammary gland mg use a mouse strain we generate tea175 that carry an etv6 locus have a -geo cassette insert between exon 2 and 3 and serve as a reporter for expression .
 upon staining mg from tea175 heterozygous female for lacz activity we find that etv6 be express in both ductal and alveolar mammary epithelial cell mec figure s1a in the supplemental data available with this article online .
 in addition flow cytometry analysis reveal cell in all four major mec subpopulation define previously figure s1b .
 activation of en in mammary gland by wap-cre lead to mammary tumor with complete penetrance .
 without cre-mediated activation of en heterozygotes be indistinguishable from wild-type wt littermates .
 some en heterozygous female and very rarely male develop mammary tumor at advance age 1 year possibly due to the leakiness of the stopper and low-level en expression .
 to activate en expression in mg we initially plan to use two commonly use mg-specific cre mouse line mmtv-cre and wap-cre .
 unfortunately use of mmtv-cre lead to a lethal myeloproliferative disease within several week after birth apparently due to expression of mmtv-cre in the hematopoietic system datum not show .
 the much restrict expression of the endogenous wap gene as well as that of the wap-cre transgene boulanger et kordon et 1995 robinson et 1995 robinson et 1996 and wagner et afford an approach for activation of en in mg without accompany effect in other tissue .
 in mature and mature nulliparous female mouse cell be present only transiently as a minor subset at estrus .
 wap expression be greatly elevate in differentiate mec during late pregnancy and lactation and then turn down follow involution .
 based on the expression pattern of wap we initially predict that hereafter wcen female mouse might require round of pregnancy in order to express sufficient cre to activate en .
 unexpectedly however all nulliparous wcen female develop multifocal mammary tumor as early as 4 month of age with precede lobuloalveolar hyperplasia .
 parous wcen female develop similar multifocal mammary tumor with antecedent alveolar hyperplasia and with no significant difference in tumor latency and histology .
 some age wcen male also develop mammary tumor figure 2a and datum not show .
 full-size image high-quality image 2142k figure mice develop mammary tumor with antecedent alveolar hyperplasia .
 a tumor-free curve .
 b mammary gland mg of wcen female ba and bc exhibit extensive lobuloalveolar hyperplasia compare to wt bb and bd .
 ba and bb mg whole mount stain with bc and bd hematoxylin eosin he -stained mg section scale bar m .
 red arrow alveolar hyperplasia .
 blue arrow dilate duct and accumulation of secretion within duct .
 c pcr analysis on genomic dna show excision of the neo-stopper cassette only in the tumor .
 location of pcr primer 1 4 be indicate .
 d western blot analysis of the wcen tumor .
 en-3t3 cell be use as the positive control .
 ip western confirm en expression in both the tumor and en-3t3 cell .
 e histology he-stained section scale bar m of mammary tumor develop in wcen ec show squamous metaplasia ee and ef be from a nulliparous female ee show a primary mammary tumor and ef show metastasis in a lymph node eg and eh be from a male eg show a primary mammary tumor and eh show metastasis in the lung .
 view within article .
 to confirm that mammary tumor in wcen animal result from activation of en expression we perform pcr analysis on genomic dna prepare from tumor and other organ of wcen animal and find that the stopper in the en allele be excise only in tumor cell .
 consistent with this we also detect en protein in tumor tissue by western blot .
 previous study demonstrate that expression of the en fusion protein in 3t3 cell lead to constitutive phosphorylation of mek1 2 and akt as well as to a constitutive high-level expression of cyclin d1 2 .
 this feature also characterize en-initiated mammary tumor hereafter en tumor .
 en tumor be heterogeneous both with respect to morphology and rate of tumor progression figure 2ea 2ed and datum not show .
 much en tumor be highly invasive and transplantable upon subcutaneous injection into immunodeficient mouse .
 the rate of tumor regrowth follow transplantation correlated with the apparent rate of progression of the corresponding primary tumor .
 due to the relatively short latency of this tumor much wcen mouse fail to show sign of metastasis .
 on occasion metastases to lymph node and lung be observe figure 2ef and 2eh .
 the transient cell in nulliparous mammary gland are target cell of en .
 in nulliparous female mouse wap be activate in a small transient population of mec during estrus kordon et 1995 robinson et 1995 and robinson et 1996 .
 further study in hereafter wclz female show that thus also mec fail to persist in wclz mouse during diestrus .
 since cell do not accumulate in nulliparous wclz mouse it be infer that the mec in which wap be first activate do not proliferate extensively and possibly die through apoptosis boulanger et henry et and wagner et .
 in addition one can infer that cell be not equivalent to mammary stem cell mascs in virgin mouse .
 since wcen nulliparous female develop multifocal mammary tumor with penetrance and the transient mec be likely the only cell in virgin that express cre and therefore activate en expression we conjecture that this cell might be direct target of en transformation .
 to test this hypothesis we interbreed a rosa-stop-lacz reporter into the wcen background and generate hereafter wcenlz female .
 we predict the presence of hyperplastic mec in mg and subsequent development of mammary tumor .
 indeed lacz staining be primarily restrict to hyperplastic alveolar cell in hyperplastic mg .
 moreover cell be confine to tumor epithelial cell in mammary tumor .
 thus genetic marking suggest that activation of en by cre rescue an otherwise transient subpopulation of mec and maintain them and progeny for subsequent step in progression to frank malignancy .
 furthermore we reason that t-ic in wcenlz tumor should also be mark by lacz .
 to test this we transplant tumor cell into immunodeficient mouse after limited dilution .
 without fractionation typically en tumor cell be need to form new tumor in mouse .
 in contrast only sometimes even as low as sort tumor cell be sufficient to initiate new tumor in host .
 this suggest that t-ic evolve from en target cell be enrich in the population of lacz-marked en tumor cell .
 full-size image 89k high-quality image figure target cell of mammary tumor developed in virgins are transient mammary progenitors rather than mascs .
 a schematic diagram of the lacz-marking experiment .
 normal wclz virgin mg contain a transient wave of mec .
 in wcenlz mutant mg the transient mec appear to be rescue from death and lead to alveolar hyperplasia and eventually mammary tumor .
 b e b and d show whole mount of wcenlz mg and tumor stain for lacz c and e be lacz-stained tissue section counterstained with nuclear fast red .
 note that in b and c cell be mainly restrict to the alveolar compartment .
 scale bar m .
 f flow cytometry analysis of a wt mg a wcen hyperplastic mg and a wcen tumor .
 the profile show here have already be gate for lineage-negative lin cell .
 percentage of positive cell be from a representative experiment .
 view within article .
 hyperplastic mammary gland and tumor accumulate cell .
 to characterize further the nature of the en target cell we examine surface marker that have previously be use to fractionate mammary tissue into enrich stem or progenitor population shackleton et stingl et and welm et .
 by flow cytometry analysis much en tumor cell be .
 moreover mg from mature nulliparous wcen female contain a great number of cell than wt control even before they develop tumor .
 in contrast the masc-enriched shackleton et and the similar stingl et subpopulation be not alter in wcen hyperplastic mg .
 this datum argue that mammary tumor in wcen mouse be unlikely to arise from transformation of mascs instead they may be derived from commit mammary progenitor .
 mammary tumor are derived from committed alveolar progenitors .
 in analogy to the hematopoietic system a developmental hierarchy for mec include mascs bipotent ductal or alveolar progenitor single lineage-restricted progenitor and mature luminal or myoepithelial cell have be propose asselin-labat et and hennighausen and robinson .
 to position target cell of en in this hierarchy we perform immunostaining for the luminal epithelial cell marker keratin 8 k8 basal myoepithelial cell marker keratin 5 k5 and 14 k14 p63 and -smooth muscle actin sma as well as the mammary progenitor marker keratin 6 k6 and estrogen receptor er figure 4a and figure s2 .
 overall we have identify two broad tumor type in wcen mouse .
 the majority of en tumor type 1 exhibit relatively well-differentiated glandular structure and contain luminal epithelial cell surround by basal myoepithelial cell that be positive for k5 k14 p63 and sometimes sma .
 occasionally there be basal myoepithelial cell leak into the region of luminal epithelial cell figure 4a and figure s2a and s2d .
 in the much extreme case some type 1 tumor type 1a or region within this tumor contain a large number of basal myoepithelial cell intermix with a small number of luminal epithelial cell in a little organize manner figure s2a .
 a second class of en tumor type 2 exhibit no basal myoepithelial cell but contain predominantly luminal epithelial cell .
 interestingly a large number of cell in this tumor be also but k5 figure 4a and figure s2a .
 in contrast much type 1 tumor lack this abnormal cell .
 however some type 1a tumor do contain a small number of cell figure s2a .
 in addition we also identify an additional subtype of type 1 tumor type 1b that exhibit glandular structure with luminal epithelial cell surround by basal myoepithelial cell .
 however many of this luminal cell be also figure s2a thus represent tumor with feature of both type 1 and 2 .
 a summary of the staining property of cell in the different type of en tumor be provide in figure s2b .
 the majority of type 1 tumor contain k6-expressing cell whereas very few or no cell be present in type 2 tumor figure s2c .
 however tumor of both type express sca-1 datum not show and be figure s2e .
 interestingly upon careful examination by immunofluorescence colocalization we observe a significant number of and cell in addition to the luminal epithelial cell figure s2e .
 full-size image 128k high-quality image 1471k figure two major type of tumor characterized by immunostaining and microarray analysis .
 a en type 1 bipotent aa ac and ae and type 2 ab ad and af tumor based on k5 k8 aa and ab k14 k8 ac and ad and cd61 cd29 ae and af staining pattern .
 scale bar m .
 b flow cytometry analysis show that cell in en type 2 tumor be .
 in normal mg almost all mec gate r1 r3 be .
 gate r4 represent nonepithelial cell in mg .
 c hierarchical cluster analysis of 12 wcen tumor type 1 and 2 blue line together with 122 sample from other murine model of breast cancer and normal mg .
 mmtv-wnt1 tumor cluster i and ii be highlight by yellow line .
 mmtv-neu and mmtv-pyvt tumor be highlight by red line .
 heat map of three representative gene cluster k5 k14 and xbp1 be show heat map show all gene in the intrinsic gene list be show in figure s5 .
 gene name for each cluster be list in table s8 .
 in the heat map red black and green represent above average average and below average level of expression respectively .
 gray indicate no datum record .
 view within article .
 recently cd61 integrin 3 have be show to mark the luminal progenitor in normal mg .
 interestingly we find that all type 2 tumor abundantly express cd61 whereas much of the type 1 tumor contain much fewer cell figure 4ae and 4af with the exception of type 1b tumor .
 microarray expression profile confirm that type 2 tumor express the high level of cd61 follow by type 1b and then the remain type 1 tumor datum not show .
 since type 2 tumor exhibit luminal appearance and be characterize by large number of cell we ask whether this double-positive cell might represent block progenitor .
 in fact flow cytometry analysis reveal that almost all cell in this tumor be .
 in normal mg the majority of cell be cell whereas luminal cell be cd61 .
 we also detect a small population of cell a significant number of which also express cd61 .
 this datum suggest that luminal progenitor be k14-expressing cell and the abnormal cell in en type 2 type 1b tumor probably represent luminal progenitor block in differentiation toward mature luminal epithelial cell .
 in type 1 en tumor the basal myoepithelial cell in addition to the luminal cell be part of the tumor epithelial cell population .
 when we compare microarray expression profile generate from sort tumor epithelial cell based on the above-described lacz marker in wcenlz female to those from unfractionated tumor we observe slight enrichment rather than loss of both the k5 basal gene cluster and the k14 cluster as define in figure 4c discuss below in sort tumor cell as determine by gene set enrichment assay gsea datum not show .
 this confirm that basal myoepithelial cell in en tumor be part of the tumor epithelial cell not normal cell recruit to tumor .
 due to the presence of mix cell type in type 1 en tumor the cell from which tumor originate be mascs bipotent progenitor or multiple lineage-committed progenitor .
 since the above-described genetic marking experiment and flow cytometry analysis both rule out mascs as target of en we next ask whether tumor be derived from distinct lineage-restricted progenitor multiclonal or from bipotent progenitor clonal .
 we use a wap-rtta-cre transgenic line that express cre in cell in the presence of doxycycline .
 we generate animal with both wap-rtta-cre and en some of which also carry a conditional luciferase reporter at the rosa26 locus rosa-stop-luc similar to the above-described rosa-stop-lacz reporter safran et .
 unexpectedly we find that the wap-rtta-cre transgene exhibit leaky cre expression and nulliparous female develop mammary tumor without doxycycline .
 this tumor also feature cell of both luminal and basal myoepithelial lineage figure s3a .
 since cre should be express at a low level without doxycycline sometimes it might excise the stopper at the en allele but not that at the rosa-stop-luc allele within the same cell .
 if a tumor arise from a cell with this genotype tumor epithelial cell would all inherit the recombined en allele and the unmodified rosa-stop-luc allele .
 indeed in a tumor arise in a nulliparous female we detect excision only at the en locus and not at the rosa-stop-luc locus figure s3b .
 since it be highly unlikely for multiple lineage-restricted progenitor to obtain the same partial excision pattern as describe above and then give rise to a tumor with this pattern observation support the clonal origin of type 1 en tumor from bipotent progenitor .
 furthermore microarray datum reveal that compare to normal mg both type 1 and 2 en tumor express high level of the alveolar cell marker -casein but low level of the ductal cell marker nkcc1 also know as solute carrier family 12 member 2 figure s4a suggest an alveolar cellular origin .
 in contrast mmtv-wnt1 tumor do not express or express low level of -casein but express nkcc1 in a fraction of tumor cell consistent with mascs as potential target cell to give rise to both ductal and or alveolar cell figure s4b .
 taken together we conclude that target cell of mammary tumor arise in wcen female be either commit bipotent alveolar progenitor type 1 or luminal alveolar progenitor type 2 .
 this progenitor be within the transient cell in nulliparous female .
 mammary tumor express both luminal and basal gene cluster .
 we compare en tumor to other murine breast cancer model by microarray expression profile use hierarchical clustering based on an intrinsic gene list develop for murine model of breast cancer .
 as show in figure 4c and figure s5 in general compare to other murine model en tumor be relatively homogeneous and cluster together .
 however the 3 type 2 tumor d14t1 d14t2 and c117t1 form own subcluster and be separate from the type 1 tumor .
 in contrast tumor from parous cr115 d14t1 and d14t2 and nulliparous the remain sample female be mix together and do not form distinct subcluster .
 this datum suggest that the initiate oncogenic event and cellular origin but not the reproductive history be much important in determine phenotype of en tumor .
 all type 1 en tumor express 3 gene cluster include a k5 basal gene cluster a strong k14 cluster and a strong xbp1 luminal gene cluster similar to mmtv-wnt1 tumor .
 type 2 en tumor express the k14 and xbp1 cluster but not the k5 cluster .
 in contrast tumor from both mmtv-neu and mmtv-pyvt mouse only express the xbp1 luminal cluster .
 of note mmtv-wnt1 tumor be much heterogeneous than en tumor and they can also be divide into two major subcluster .
 one contain k5 and k14 cluster but not the xbp1 luminal cluster figure 4c cluster i .
 the other contain the k5 basal cluster and the xbp1 luminal cluster though express at slightly low level but not the k14 cluster figure 4c cluster ii .
 this difference may be due in part to different cell of origin with mascs as much likely target of mmtv-wnt1 tumor and commit progenitor as target of en .
 an ap1 signature associated with en-mediated mammary tumorigenesis .
 to understand the mechanism of en-mediated mammary tumorigenesis we first perform gsea on microarray expression profile from unsorted en tumor compare to those from normal mg use curated gene set c2 collection for metabolic and signaling pathway from the gsea molecular signature database website .
 unexpectedly this analysis only reveal pathway that seem to be common for tumor cell in general reflect increase metabolic activity and proliferation table s1 .
 two possibility may account for this result .
 first pathway that be active in both normal mg and tumor may not be reveal by this assay .
 second noncancerous cell in this tumor introduce significant noise in unsorted tumor sample .
 in wcenlz animal tumor epithelial cell be labeled by lacz figure 3b 3e .
 thus we have the opportunity to mark tumor epithelial cell and separate them from stromal cell .
 in addition target cell of en in wclz virgin female as well as premalignant hyperplastic mec in wcenlz female be also mark by lacz thus provide an opportunity to isolate this cell for analysis .
 we generate microarray expression profile for several lacz-sorted sample from either wcenlz hyperplastic mg that have not develop visible tumor or mammary tumor that arise in wcenlz female .
 we then compare sort tumor cell to sort hyperplastic mec by gsea use the above-described c2 gene set in an attempt to identify pathway upregulated during tumor progression .
 the top gene set enrich in sort tumor cell derived from this comparison be much informative than the comparison use unsorted tumor table s2 compare to table s1 .
 pathways relate to the hypoxia response in tumor wnt signaling trk ngf signaling tgf signaling and gene regulate by myc be evident .
 to further validate the effectiveness of this approach we also compare unsorted tumor to sort hyperplastic mec thus both comparison have the same baseline .
 the top gene set enrich in unsorted tumor reveal from this analysis be very similar to those compare to normal mg table s3 compare to table s1 suggest that gsea use sort tumor cell may reveal pathway with well specificity than use unsorted tumor .
 we next compare sort tumor cell to unsorted tumor by gsea use c2 gene set .
 we reason that gene pathway upregulated specifically in tumor epithelial cell would be far enrich in this comparison .
 this would also potentially reveal an overall en signature in the tumor epithelial cell compartment compose of pathway upregulated during the initial transformation or tumor progression or both .
 among gene set enrich in sort tumor cell we observe pathway relate to gene regulate by c ebp il6 response hoxa5 target wnt signaling jnk signaling and tgf signaling table s4 .
 to determine what portion of the en tumor signature be acquire during tumor initiation ideally we would need to sort normal target cell of en and compare expression profile to those from sort hyperplastic mec .
 unfortunately lacz staining of mammary tissue by fdg dye yield a significant amount of background staining even for lacz tissue .
 this background staining do not cause difficulty when sort hyperplastic mec or tumor cell which typically constitute of total cell but prohibit sort the small population of transient en target cell as estimate by wagner et wagner and smith with sufficient confidence .
 to overcome this technical limitation we turn to an in vitro model of en signaling .
 because en be a unique oncoprotein in that it transform cell of all germ layer we reason that the mechanism of en-mediated transformation might be conserve in different cell type .
 en-mediated signaling in nih 3t3 cell have be study previously tognon et and wai et many of which be also observe in en tumor .
 thus we generate microarray expression profile from en-transduced 3t3 cell en-3t3 and compare them to those of untransformed 3t3 cell .
 by perform gsea use c2 gene set we identify several common gene set that be enrich in both en-3t3 cell and sort en tumor cell include 2 il6 pathway wnttargets chenhoxa5targetsup and tgfbetasignalingpathway table s5 compare to table s4 .
 since wnttargets arise among the top-enriched gene set in all three analysis we next focused on this gene set .
 by compare the core enrichment gene from all three analysis we observe striking similarity between sort tumor cell compare to unsorted tumor and en-3t3 cell compare to control 3t3 cell figure s6a and s6b include gene such as jun fosl1 plaur and cd44 .
 jun and fosl1 also know as fra1 encode component of the ap1 complex and be target gene of -catenin in human colorectal carcinoma .
 plaur encode upar and transcription be activate through ap1 .
 in addition cd44 can also be upregulated by ap1 activity .
 thus this four-gene set appear to represent an ap1 signature .
 consistent with the above datum we also observe enrichment of all gene set contain gene with the ap1-binding motif in the c3 collection of gsea database in sort tumor cell and en-3t3 cell table s6 .
 much directly we manually compile a gene set for ap1 target gene based on publish literature plus jun and fosl1 and observe significant enrichment in both sort en tumor cell and en-3t3 cell .
 in addition to the above-described four-gene set we identify additional ap1 target gene that be upregulated in both comparison include hbegf heparin-binding egf-like growth factor bcl2l11 bim cdkn1a p21 and cdkn2a p16 .
 p16ink4a and p21waf1 typically function as tumor suppressor .
 however both may also act as oncogene .
 in fact overexpression of p16 be find in breast cancer case with a much malignant phenotype .
 of note we do not observe significant enrichment of this ap1 signature in sort en tumor cell compare to sort en hyperplastic mec figure 5c and figure s6c suggest that at least part of this signature might have already be acquire in hyperplastic mec during the initial stage of en transformation .
 full-size image 171k high-quality image 1482k figure enrichment of c-jun fosl1 and ap1 target in en-transformed cell .
 a c gsea show enrichment of c-jun fosl1 and ap1 target gene in sort en tumor cell compare to unsorted tumor a and sort hyperplastic cell c and in en-3t3 cell b .
 gene express at high level in both sort tumor and en-3t3 cell be highlight with green line .
 gene express at high level in both sort hyperplastic mec and en-3t3 cell be indicate by red arrow .
 view within article .
 to confirm involvement of the c-jun fosl1 ap1 complex in en-mediated transformation we perform electrophoretic mobility shift assay emsa on nuclear lysate from 3t3 cell and observe a significantly large and specific band shift create by ap1 complex formation in en-3t3 cell .
 this ap1 complex be compose of c-jun and fosl1 or fosl2 .
 western blot analysis confirm significantly elevate level of total c-jun phosphorylated c-jun and fosl1 only in en-3t3 cell suggest that c-jun fosl1 be indeed the major ap1 complex form upon en-mediated transformation .
 full-size image 124k high-quality image 1446k figure upregulation and activation of the c-jun fosl1 ap1 complex i associated with en-mediated transformation .
 a ap1 emsa on nuclear lysate from control en or en kinase-dead kd transduced 3t3 cell .
 incubation with a specific unlabeled competitor block band shift lane 3 .
 en-3t3 nuclear lysate produce a significantly large band shift compare to control or en kd-3t3 lysate compare lane 5 to lane 2 and 6 .
 b antibody specific to fosl1 fosl2 and c-jun band-shifted or destroy the ap1 band shift produce by en nuclear extract whereas antibody to c-fos and sp1 have no effect .
 c western blot analysis perform on lysate from serum-starved control mscvp kinase-dead en en-kd and en 3t3 cell .
 en cell possess a tyrosine phosphorylated oncoprotein doublet and elevate level of phosphorylated akt mek and c-jun ser 63 and 73 as well as elevate level of fosl1 total c-jun and cyclin d1 2 .
 loading control grb2 .
 d immunofluorescence da dc and dg di and immunohistochemical dd df and dj dl staining of wt mg da dd dg and dj en hyperplastic mg db de dh and dk and en mammary tumor dc df di and dl with antibody against fosl1 da dc phosphorylated c-jun at ser63 dd df and at ser73 dg di and total c-jun dj dl .
 wt mg in da dd and dj be from nulliparous female mouse .
 wt mg in dg be from a lactate female .
 scale bar m .
 e immunostaining of three sbc case confirm the presence activation of the c-jun fosl1 ap1 complex .
 scale bar m .
 view within article .
 to validate upregulation and activation of the c-jun fosl1 complex in en tumor we perform immunostaining use antibody against fosl1 phosphorylated c-jun and total c-jun .
 in wt mg fosl1 be mainly localized in cytoplasm figure 6da .
 in en hyperplastic mec and tumor cell the overall intensity of fosl1 staining be increase and much importantly significant fosl1 nuclear staining be detect figure 6db and 6dc .
 in addition upregulation and phosphorylation of c-jun be also evident in en hyperplastic mec and tumor cell but not in wt mg figure 6dd 6dl suggest that activation of this ap1 complex be an early event present in hyperplastic mec and persist in en-mediated tumorigenesis .
 to determine the c-jun fosl1 status in human sbc we stain three sbc case with c-jun and fosl1 antibody .
 as show in figure 6e in three of three sbc sample study we detect nuclear staining of fosl1 and expression and activation phosphorylation of c-jun suggest that activation of the c-jun fosl1 complex be indeed associate with human sbc .
 expression of a dominant-negative c-jun blocks en-mediated transformation .
 to determine if ap1 activation be necessary for en-mediated transformation we employ the dominant-negative dn c-jun tam67 which lack transactivation domain to block the ap1 activity in several different system .
 coexpression of dn c-jun in en-3t3 cell block en-mediated transformation both morphologically and molecularly figure 7a 7d .
 ectopic expression of en in the murine eph4 cell and human cell lead to large spheroid in 3d matrigel culture which be reverted by coexpression of dn c-jun .
 we have show previously that en-transduced eph4 en-eph4 cell form tumor upon subcutaneous injection in immunodeficient mouse .
 we now show that expression of dn c-jun in en-eph4 cell significantly reduce tumorigenic property in vivo .
 we compare microarray expression profile between en-eph4 tumor and dn c-jun en-eph4 tumor by gsea .
 as expect many gene set enrich in sort en tumor cell compare to unsorted en tumor be downregulated in dn c-jun en-eph4 tumor table s7 .
 importantly one of them be jnkup a gene set directly relate to jnk-jun signaling .
 full-size image 127k high-quality image 1412k figure expression of a dominant-negative c-jun blocks en-mediated transformation .
 a expression of dominant-negative dn c-jun in en-expressing cell confirm by western blot analysis .
 loading control total akt .
 b and c dn c-jun expression reverts en-mediated morphological transformation b scale bar m and soft agar colony formation c error bar mean sd in 3t3 cell .
 d western blot analysis of serum-starved control cell mscvp and en cell alone coexpressing dn c-jun or treat with either mek inhibitor or pi3k inhibitor ly 25 m .
 both treatment and coexpression of dn c-jun have a significant effect upon cyclin d1 2 level in en cell .
 loading control total akt .
 e effect of en and dn c-jun expression on eph4 cell growth after 4 day in 3d matrigel culture .
 scale bar m .
 f effect of en and dn c-jun expression on human cell growth in 3d matrigel culture .
 scale bar m .
 g tumor growth curve of luciferase express cell inject subcutaneously into nude mouse .
 roi region of interest value in photons sr .
 h comparison of bioluminescent image of mouse at day 14 and day .
 i top panel show cell in an empty-vector transduced en tumor develop in the host .
 lower panel show three distinct population of cell r1 r3 express high medium and low level of gfp respectively in a dn c-jun transduced en tumor develop in the host .
 j pcr genotyping use a forward primer in the dn c-jun and a reverse primer in the pgk promoter of the viral vector confirm integration of dn c-jun virus in all three population r1 r3 of the dn c-jun en tumor .
 this primer set do not detect the control virus vector only .
 k expression level of dn c-jun be estimate indirectly by compare expression level of the endogenous c-jun to those of total c-jun endogenous dn c-jun .
 expression of the endogenous c-jun be detect by a pcr primer set locate in the region delete in dn c-jun .
 expression of total c-jun be detect by a second primer set locate in the common region .
 l flow cytometry analysis show reduce number of cell in the dn c-jun en tumor compare to the control tumor .
 a representative experiment be show .
 view within article .
 lastly we ask whether force expression of dn c-jun in primary en tumor cell impair capacity to form new tumor upon transplantation .
 we develop a protocol to retrovirally transduce en tumor cell ex vivo quickly sort virally infect cell and then transplant them into mouse immediately .
 in three independent experiment perform five of five mouse transplant with en tumor cell transduced by the control virus empty vector lpig develop tumor in 23 month whereas only three of five mouse transplant with the same number of dn c-jun-transduced en tumor cell develop tumor within the same time window .
 in one tumor derived from dn c-jun-transduced en tumor cell we detect three distinct population of tumor cell express high medium and low level of gfp .
 intriguingly the gfphi population be significantly small than the other two .
 in contrast the majority of tumor cell in the control lpig tumor be cell express high level of gfp .
 we individually sort this distinct population of cell and confirm they be all derived from virally transduced cell .
 we then quantitated dn c-jun expression level and compare this to virally transduced cell before transplantation input .
 consistent with gfp expression level the gfphi gfpmid and gfplow cell in the dn c-jun-transduced tumor also express high medium and low level of dn c-jun respectively .
 in addition even the gfphi tumor cell express much low level of dn c-jun than those of the input .
 this finding suggest that selection against en tumor cell express high level of dn c-jun occur in vivo .
 upon staining with antibody for stem progenitor marker cd61 and cd49f we find the dn c-jun-transduced tumor contain fewer cell than the control tumor .
 since mec may represent stem progenitor cell in mg we hypothesize that force expression of dn c-jun in en tumor cell may reduce the number of tumor cell capable of initiate new tumor upon transplantation .
 furthermore in one mouse transplant with dn c-jun-transduced en tumor cell two physically separate tumor develop .
 one tumor express high level of gfp and dn c-jun the other express low level of gfp and dn c-jun datum not show .
 we sort cell from both tumor and serially transplant the same number of sort cell range from to into mouse .
 month after transplantation mouse inject with and gfplow thus also dn c-junlow cell have already develop new tumor whereas none of the mouse transplant with gfphi thus also dn c-junhi cell have develop tumor .
 this again suggest that high level of dn c-jun expression in en tumor cell reduce the number of tumor cell capable of form new tumor upon transplantation .
 discussion committed mammary progenitors as cell of origin for breast cancer .
 a central question in cancer biology be the cellular origin of cancer .
 do cancer originate from normal stem cell that lose normal growth control or do they initiate from progenitor or much differentiate cell after acquisition of stem cell attribute through mutation s current view be derived largely from study of leukemia in the hematopoietic system .
 since hematopoietic stem cell hscs be endow with self-renewal it have be argue that transformation of hscs provide a simple mean to generate leukemic cell .
 paradoxically cellular phenotype in diverse leukemia mirror those of progenitor rather than hscs .
 in fact evidence in both patient and mouse model favor a progenitor cell origin for many leukemia see jamieson et and krivtsov et .
 similarly although mascs be often propose as cell of origin for breast tumor cellular phenotype of human breast cancer be not easily reconcile with this view .
 for instance since mascs can give rise to both luminal and myoepithelial cell one would expect to see mix cell type in breast cancer if mascs represent the predominant cellular origin yet much human breast tumor exhibit phenotype of luminal epithelial cell .
 this suggest that much differentiate cell in mg may serve as cell of origin for breast cancer .
 however the existence of such commit progenitor in normal mg remain to be directly demonstrate .
 likewise direct evidence be also lack to show such cell as target of transformation lead to breast cancer .
 the cellular origin of human breast cancer be difficult to establish .
 murine model therefore represent a tractable alternative for analysis .
 previous study use murine model have propose both mascs and much differentiate cell include mammary progenitor as target of breast cancer .
 moreover in murine model create by overexpression of oncogene drive by the same promoter mmtv different oncogene wnt1 -catenin versus neu or h-ras or pymt appear to preferentially transform distinct population of mec .
 however due to use of exogenous promoter thus oncogene often express at nonphysiological level and in the absence of genetic marking and thorough characterization of tumor cell type this model definitively assign target cell within the normal mec developmental hierarchy .
 in wcen mouse en be under the transcriptional control of the endogenous etv6 promoter and therefore should be express at a physiological level .
 since mammary tumor develop in nulliparous wcen female at penetrance and transient cell be the only cell in which en expression be activate this unique combination and the genetic marking experiment describe above provide direct evidence to support commit mammary progenitor within the transient cell as target of en .
 previous study use genetic marking have identify a population of multipotent mec term parity-induced mec or pi-mecs that originate from wap-cre-expressing differentiate cell during the first pregnancy lactate cycle survive through postlactational remodeling and persist throughout the remainder of life boulanger et henry et wagner et and wagner and smith .
 recently a population of alveolar progenitor cell similar to pi-mecs be identify in nulliparous mouse mg .
 this cell represent lobule-restricted multipotent progenitor capable of proliferation and differentiation to both luminal and myoepithelial cell upon transplantation .
 apparently this progenitor cell be target of en in wcen virgin female as describe in this study .
 study also support the existence of an epithelial cell hierarchy in both normal mg and in mammary tumor .
 we have describe at least two type of commit alveolar progenitor in the transient population of mec in nulliparous mg the bipotent alveolar progenitor as target of type 1 tumor and the lineage-committed luminal alveolar progenitor as target of type 2 tumor .
 however we exclude the possibility that type 2 tumor be also derived from bipotent progenitor that be block in differentiation and only give rise to immature luminal cell .
 we favor lineage-committed luminal progenitor rather than bipotent progenitor as target cell .
 in support of this conclusion knockout of gata3 in mg lead to an expansion of luminal progenitor and a concomitant block in differentiation suggest the existence of such luminal-restricted progenitor in the normal mec hierarchy .
 in some type 1 en tumor we observe region with extensive basal epithelial cell type 1a and region with immature luminal epithelial cell surround by basal myoepithelial cell type 1b .
 this can be well explain by the existence of an epithelial cell hierarchy in en tumor .
 the commit bipotent alveolar progenitor be transform by en and become oncogenic bipotent progenitor which give rise to abnormal luminal-restricted progenitor and basal myoepithelial-committed progenitor .
 in much case this progenitor differentiate into well-differentiated type 1 en bipotent tumor .
 occasionally either under the influence of the microenvironment or after acquire additional mutation some of the abnormal luminal or basal myoepithelial-committed progenitor become far transform and give rise to clone of immature luminal or basal epithelial cell due to block in differentiation respectively .
 full-size image 99k high-quality image 835k figure the mammary epithelial cell hierarchy in normal mammary gland and in mammary tumor from female .
 proposed target cell of en in wcen female be indicate red circle .
 red arrow indicate that en-initiated tumorigenesis both tumor initiation and progression be mediate through ap1 .
 view within article .
 k14 be a type ii keratin that pair with the type i keratin k5 to form heterodimer in basal cell of stratified epithelia .
 thus both k5 and k14 have be consider as basal cell marker and have be use to distinguish basal myoepithelial cell from luminal epithelial cell .
 however in this study we show that k14 also stain a subset of luminal epithelial cell in addition to basal myoepithelial cell figure 4a and figure s2a and s7 .
 in fact this luminal cell represent block luminal progenitor in en tumor .
 of note in normal mg a population of figure 4b this study or luminal cell be also detect .
 in addition microarray analysis of murine breast cancer model also show that the k14 gene cluster be distinct from the k5 basal gene cluster figure 4c also herschkowitz et .
 thus k14 be distinct from k5 as a marker and a combination of both marker together with other marker p63 sma k8 can be use to define subpopulation of cell in murine mammary tumor .
 although we show that en transform commit alveolar progenitor we do not dismiss the possibility that en may also transform mascs .
 interestingly as we describe above due to the leaky expression of the en allele without cre-mediated excision of the stopper thus independent of the wap promoter a small number of en-only heterozygous mouse develop mammary tumor at advance age .
 much of this tumor fall within one of the four subtype describe above in wcen female figure s7 suggest that target cell of en in this two type of mouse be probably similar .
 however under this genetic setting one be certain if bipotent tumor with type 1 feature be derived from commit bipotent progenitor similar to wcen or from mascs since they probably give rise to tumor with a similar appearance .
 in addition to tumor with feature of this four subtype we also observe tumor either contain extensively basal cell or contain mainly but k14 luminal cell figure s7 .
 this be much likely due to the long latency of tumor that develop in en-only mouse 1 year compare to several month for wcen female .
 much differentiate single lineage-committed cell may be transform by en after they accumulate additional mutation over an extend time period .
 transformation by en oncoprotein i mediated through the ap1 complex .
 the ap1 transcriptional complex be compose of heterodimeric jun fos family protein .
 the ap1 pathway integrate multiple growth signal at the transcriptional level and regulate several cellular process .
 in normal mg previous study have show that ap1 be a pivotal regulator of postnatal mg growth and development .
 in human breast cancer c-jun activation be associate with proliferation and angiogenesis in invasive breast cancer .
 overexpression of the dn c-jun in breast cancer cell induce a g1 cell cycle block and inhibit growth both in vitro and in vivo .
 fosl1 fra1 regulate proliferation and invasiveness of breast cancer cell belguise et and milde-langosch et .
 overexpression of fosl1 fra-i protein have be observe in both hyperplastic and neoplastic human breast disorder .
 in addition fosl1 be also use as an effective target for a dna vaccine to protect mouse against breast cancer .
 finding demonstrate that en expression lead to upregulation and activation of the c-jun fosl1 ap1 complex .
 several ap1 target gene be upregulated in both en-3t3 cell and en tumor cell figure 5a and 5b and figure s6a and s6b include hbegf and possibly ccnd1 cyclin d1 which stimulate proliferation .
 cyclin d1 be the major positive regulator of cell cycle progression induce by ap1 .
 although we do not observe increase level of cyclin d1 in sort tumor cell directly compare to unsorted tumor possibly due to expression in stromal cell we observe upregulation in en-3t3 cell both by microarray and western blot .
 we demonstrate upregulation during tumor progression .
 we also detect high level of cyclin d1 2 expression in en tumor by western blot .
 intriguingly microarray analysis show that several ap1 target gene know to promote angiogenesis and invasiveness include plaur plau cd44 ctsl cathepsin l mmp3 matrix metallopeptidase 3 and tpm3 tropomyosin 3 be upregulated in both en-3t3 cell and en hyperplastic mec suggest that an en ap1-induced invasiveness program may be establish early in en-mediated transformation .
 this observation may partially account for the short latency and aggressiveness of en tumor in mouse and the appearance of sbc in child as young as 3 year of age .
 together with previous observation in human breast cancer cell study support critical role of ap1 in breast tumorigenesis and invasiveness .
 further focus on this transcriptional complex as a target in human breast cancer be warrant .
 modeling chromosomal rearrangements in human epithelial tumor provide insights into pathogenesis and therapy .
 the breast cancer model describe here be based on the t translocation in human cancer .
 datum demonstrate that the translocation-generated en fusion oncoprotein be sufficient to initiate mammary tumorigenesis .
 this complement genetic evidence in human suggest that this translocation be the primary event in the disorder .
 in model en be induce only in a very small number of cell in mammary tissue and the tumor cell emerge within the environment of normal cell thus closely mimic human disease initiate by somatic mutation .
 the recent finding of recurrent gene fusion in prostate cancer and lung cancer suggest that balanced disease-specific chromosomal rearrangement in epithelial cancer may be much common and important than previously believe meyerson and tomlins et .
 as demonstrate in hematopoietic malignancy study of gene rearrangement have contribute immeasurably to an understanding of both normal blood cell development and malignancy .
 in addition study of gene fusion with kinase activity have revolutionize targeted therapy for cancer imatinib for bcr-abl fusion .
 we hope that the success in modeling an infrequent translocation see in human epithelial cancer describe here will inspire the generation of sophisticated model of other chromosomal arrangement that may occur much commonly in other epithelial tumor .
 such engineer mouse permit experimental access to the early target cell and step in the transformation process and may serve as effective model for preclinical testing .
 experimental procedure mice .
 etv6-ntrk3 conditional knockin mouse be generate by gene targeting detail be provide in the supplemental experimental procedure .
 wap-cre mmtv-cre and wap-rtta-cre transgenic mouse be acquire from the mmhcc repository at nci-frederick .
 rosa-stop-lacz reporter mouse and immunodeficient mouse be maintain in mouse colony .
 the rosa-stop-luc reporter be kindly provide by william kaelin jr .
 all study involve mouse be approve by the children 's hospital boston institutional animal care and use committee and perform in accordance with the relevant protocol .
 human sbc sample .
 the sbc case be accrue from pathology department at children 's and women 's health centre of british columbia instituto de patologia e imunologia molecular da universidade do porto and burnaby general hospital burnaby canada .
 informed consent be obtain for all patient sample use in this study and ethic approval be receive from the research ethic board reb at the university of british columbia .
 pathology immunostaining lacz staining and flow cytometry .
 standard protocol be follow .
 detailed procedure be provide in the supplemental experimental procedure .
 biochemical and cellular assay .
 standard protocol be follow .
 detail about emsa western blot immunoprecipitation study and soft agar assay be provide in the supplemental experimental procedure .
 microarray data collection and analysis .
 microarray expression profile be collect use affymetrix or agilent chip and analyzed use dchip and gsea as describe .
 detail be provide in the supplemental experimental procedure .
 all microarray datum have be deposit in ncbi 's gene expression omnibus geo with geo series accession number gse9355 en tumor use affymetrix chip gse9354 3t3 cell gse9353 eph4-derived tumor and gse9343 select en tumor use agilent chip .
 acknowledgment .
 we thank yuko fujiwara aimee william and nicole stokes for help with transgenic mouse carol browne for assistance with es cell targeting melanie hamblen for general support grigoriy losyev for cell sort leonard zon for discussion tim triche for help with microarray of 3t3 cell .
 this work be support by grant to from the nci mouse model of human cancer consortium and from the department of defense by grant to from the canadian institute for health research cihr by fund to from nci and and by a k99 pathway-to-independence award to from nci .
 be an investigator of the howard hughes medical institute .
 be support by a rethink breast cancer career development award .
 stress-related change in the immune system may be important for breast cancer patient .
 data from many study have suggest that chronic psychological stress can adversely affect immune function .
 this result should be interpret with caution as causality have not be determine .
 this study be undertake to evaluate the psychological endocrine and immunological effect of a relaxation and visualization therapy rvt in breast cancer patient undergo radiotherapy .
 the possibility for an enhancement of immune function through psychological intervention have generate considerable interest .
 there be significant evidence that stress management intervention may have positive psychological effect .
 a variety of psychosocial intervention in cancer such as education behavioral technique and individual and group therapy have all be show to reduce anxiety and depression while enhance active coping style .
 in fact a meta-analysis of 15 study show a decrease in depression and anxiety regardless of cancer type and adjunctive psychological therapy use .
 cancer patient usually seek alternative supportive therapy able to help clinical treatment .
 this may further strengthen coping skill to the disease as well as make them participant in treatment .
 this be the rationale of simonton 's theory in which patient be truly commit to treatment improve quality of life increase survival or even induce remission of the disease .
 stress lead to activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal hpa axis increase peripheral cortisol that be know to have immunosuppressive effect .
 cortisol hypersecretion may also result in depressed mood .
 in addition previous work show that breast cancer be associate with increase cortisol level both prior to and follow treatment .
 however low cortisol level have be find among recently diagnose breast cancer patient with a history of depression or posttraumatic stress disorder ptsd .
 it have be show that breast cancer be associate with flatter circadian pattern of hpa axis function .
 flatter daytime slope of cortisol have be associate with fatigue in breast cancer patient and be predictive of early mortality with metastatic breast cancer independent of other know prognostic factor .
 in addition depression be associate to blunt stress reactivity in metastatic breast cancer .
 recent work suggest that flatter daytime cortisol slope among metastatic breast cancer patient may be relate to disrupt feedback inhibition of the hpa axis rather than hypersensitivity in response to stimulation .
 psychological intervention aim to reduce psychological stress and cortisol level lead to improve immune function and health .
 to date few study have address this cogent relationship in breast cancer .
 a randomized control relaxation intervention with patient with advance breast cancer be associate with reduce cortisol level in those patient with increase cortisol level at the beginning of the intervention .
 increased lymphocyte count and reduce evening cortisol level have be observe in breast cancer patient follow a week rvt .
 recently a randomized clinical trial assess the psychological behavioral and immune change after a stress management intervention in a large sample of breast cancer patient .
 the intervention be effective to reduce anxiety score improve perceive social support and dietary habit as well as maintain stable or increase mitogen-induced t-cell proliferation .
 the measurement of peripheral hormone may not be sufficient to finally determine the functional hormonal action in target tissue .
 glucocorticoid gc immunomodulation be orchestrate by specific binding of gc on intracellular steroid receptor mineracorticoid mr and gc receptor gr .
 although mr have high affinity for circulate gc than gr much if not all effect on the immune system be mediate via gr .
 the presence of this receptor indicate that the immune system be prepare for hpa axis activation and the subsequent elevation in endogenous gc .
 it have be suggest that chronically elevate cortisol level may produce a state of acquire steroid resistance enable lymphocyte to respond with little intensity to gc .
 this phenomenon have previously be observe during major depression and chronic stress .
 we hypothesized that psychological distress experience by breast cancer patient would be associate with reduce lymphocyte sensitivity to gc .
 to date it be largely unknown whether stress management intervention be able to restore this impair cellular response .
 here we investigate if rvt be capable to attenuate psychological distress stress anxiety and depression low salivary cortisol level and increase nonspecific lymphocyte proliferative response .
 finally we investigate the lymphocyte sensitivity to gc in vitro to explore the functional hormonal action in the immune system .
 method study design .
 this study be undertake in a repeated-measures design with two time point .
 psychological endocrine and immunological datum be obtain at baseline and after a 24 day intervention .
 each intervention include a group consist of up to four patient .
 salivary sample be collect three time a day to assess cortisol level .
 peripheral blood for the immunological test be draw at the same time of the day .
 subjects .
 a total of 34 subject with breast cancer stage i or ii undergo radiotherapy be recruit from the radiotherapy service at so luca hospital porto alegre brazil and randomly assign into two group i patient as experimental group and ii and 14 patient as control group .
 the radiotherapy session never exceed min of radiation exposure average 5 7 min .
 the control group do not participate in the rvt intervention or in any other type of additional intervention .
 all subject complete the two assessment and have at least 2 week of chemotherapy washout .
 demographic information include age ethnicity religion education marital status and occupation status be obtain on a form create for this study .
 the study protocol be approve by both scientific and ethic committee pucrs porto alegre brazil and write inform consent be obtain from all subject .
 exclusion criterion include presence of acute or chronic infection heart disease anorexia anemia leucopenia clinical depression ptsd neurodegenerative disease and use of gc .
 psychological profile .
 the psychosocial variable be assess by mean of structure clinical interview and perform by a train investigator .
 the stress level be assess by the inventory of stress symptoms lipp for adult issl .
 the issl identify the presence of stress symptom type of symptom somatic and psychological and stress phase include alarm adaptation quasi exhaustion and exhaustion .
 it include 37 item of somatic symptom and 19 item of psychological symptom .
 this instrument be based on selye 's model of stress symptom list in the scale be specific for each phase of stress .
 the score be perform by mean of three different stage relate to the duration 24 h week and month and intensity of stress symptom .
 the sum of all physical as well as psychological symptom within each stage result in a score that be relate to the presence of stress accordingly to the follow criterion q16 alarm phase or q23 adaptation phase or q38 exhaustion phase .
 the duration of administration be min .
 the state trait anxiety inventory stai and beck anxiety inventory bai be employ as self-report generic measure of anxiety .
 stai be a item assessment device which include separate measure of state and trait anxiety .
 the duration of administration be min .
 scores on the stai have a direct interpretation high score on respective scale mean much trait or state anxiety and low score mean little .
 it be find to be a sensitive indicator of change in transitory anxiety experience by patient in counseling psychotherapy and behavior modification program .
 the beck anxiety inventory bai discriminate anxiety from depression while display convergent validity .
 self-report measuresthe scale consist of 21 item each describe common symptom of anxiety include nervousness inability to relax headache and tachycardia .
 each item consist of four statement represent vary degree of severity .
 the duration of administration be 5 min .
 the respondent be ask to rate how much he or she have be bother by each symptom over the past week on a 4 point scale range from to the item be summed to obtain a total score that can range from to 63 with high score indicate high level of anxious symptom or low anxiety anxiety .
 the scale obtain high internal consistency and item total correlation range from to .
 the beck depression inventory bdi be employ as self-report scale for assess depression level .
 bdi consist of 21 item to assess the intensity of depression in clinical and normal patient .
 each item be a list of four statement arrange in increase severity about a particular symptom of depression .
 the item be summed to obtain a total score that can range from to 63 with high score indicate high level of depressive symptom 19 depression depression duration of administration be min .
 the kuder richardson reliability coefficient for this scale be always high than .
 rvt intervention .
 detail of the rvt intervention include objective structure component and content have be describe previously .
 the rvt intervention consist of 24 daily min structure group n4 session at the breast cancer unit so luca hospital porto alegre brazil .
 the subject be always lead by the same train investigator psychologist at all time .
 each session be undergo immediately follow radiotherapy in a different room at the hospital .
 the rvt include a relaxation period min in which the subject be induce to mentally create an image of the desire objective or result include progressive muscle relaxation guide imagery meditation and deep breathing .
 subjects be guide to create a mental image in which tumor be attack by immune system and then to visualize the breast completely heal .
 subjects perform the rvt twice a day at home use a tape .
 all subject be remind phone call to perform rvt session at home .
 collection of salivary sample and cortisol measurement .
 the assessment of steroid in saliva have prove to be a valid and reliable reflection of the unbound hormone in the blood with salivary cortisol concentration reflect 5 of the level present in serum .
 participants be ask to collect three saliva sample with the help of cotton roll over the course of the experimental day at 8 12 and 8 always before meal and venepuncture .
 sampling be perform across the day to assess some aspect of circadian pattern .
 upon arrival in the laboratory the sample be centrifuged and freeze at .
 salivary cortisol sample be then analyzed by radioimmunoassays ria dpc medlab so paulo brazil .
 the sensitivity of this assay be estimate in nm l .
 the intra- and interassay coefficient of variation be little than .
 result from each of the sampling time be express in nmol l .
 collection of peripheral blood and isolation of mononuclear cell .
 ten milliliter of peripheral blood be collect by venepuncture in the morning between 9 and and sample be store into lithium-heparin tube before analysis .
 sample be always collect at the same time of day to minimize circadian variation .
 peripheral blood mononuclear cell pbmc be isolate by centrifugation over a ficoll hypaque sigma louis mo usa gradient g min .
 cell be count by mean of microscopy and viability always exceed as judge from ability to exclude trypan blue sigma .
 cell culture and steroid sensitivity assay .
 peripheral sensitivity to hormone be estimate by functional assay develop to measure the ability of steroid to suppress t-cell proliferation in vitro .
 t-cell proliferation be evaluate by incubate pbmc cell well with phytohemagglutinin pha 2 1 and gibco grand island ny usa in complete culture medium supplement with gentamicin glutamine hepes and fetal calf serum all from sigma louis mo usa for 96 h at 37c in co2 atmosphere .
 dexamethasone dex selective gc receptor agonist and corticosterone cort which bind to both type of steroid receptor be add in duplicate l well both water-soluble substance purchase from sigma to mitogen-stimulated lymphocyte culture .
 gc concentration be use in a range to m that free gc would reach during rest state m stress m or under pharmacological treatment m in vivo .
 one optimum pha concentration be use for all steroid culture .
 fifty l of culture medium be add to all stimulate culture .
 in spontaneous without lectin culture mitogen be replace by l of culture medium .
 data be present as percentage of basal proliferation pha without steroid .
 cell proliferation viability assay .
 the proliferative response be determine by a modify colorimetric assay .
 in the last 4 h of culture l of the supernatant be gently discard and l of freshly prepare mtt 3- diamethyl 2-thiazolyl diphenyl-2h-tetrazolium sigma st .
 louis mo usa solution 5 mg ml in be add to each well .
 the dehydrogenase enzyme in metabolically active cell convert this substrate to formazan produce a dark blue precipitate .
 the cell culture be incubate for 4 h at 37c in co2 atmosphere .
 after complete removal of the supernatant l of dimethyl sulfoxide sigma st louis mo usa be add to each well .
 the optical density od be determine use biorad hercules usa elisa plate reader at a wavelength of and nm .
 proliferation viability be express as od of stimulatedod of nonstimulated culture .
 statistical analysis .
 all variable be test for normality of distribution by mean of the kolmogorov smirnov test .
 the demographic medical history and health behavior variable be describe pre intervention for the complete sample use the frequency and descriptive statistic .
 difference in proportion between group be test by mean of 2 test .
 paired-samples t test be use to compare pre post intervention psychological score .
 we also compute effect size for pre post intervention change observe in the outcome measure .
 proliferation and cortisol datum be analyzed by repeated-measures analysis of variance anova that include one between-subjects variable control versus experimental and one within-subjects variable cortisol mitogen or steroid level .
 the area under the curve auc of cortisol datum 8 12 and 8 and in vitro gc response dex cort m be estimate use the trapezoidal rule .
 relationship between variable be investigate by pearson 's partial correlation control for anxiety level stai-trait at baseline .
 residualized change score be calculate to associate psychological and physiological outcome over time .
 the significance level be set at two-tailed .
 data be analyzed with the statistical package for the social science spss chicago il usa .
 result subjects .
 a total of 34 subject with breast cancer meeting admission criterion be recruit .
 twenty patient complete the 24 day rvt and 14 subject be control .
 the sample characteristic be show in table experimental and control be homogeneous as show by similar sociodemographic profile .
 in addition both experimental and control group have similar health behavior .
 all subject drink coffee at a daily basis three be regular smoker experimental group and only one patient experimental group complain of insomnia that ameliorate follow the third rvt session .
 none of them be engage on regular physical activity .
 some patient be on tamoxifen that affect the immune system .
 however the datum do not change when control for tamoxifen use .
 none of them be take contraceptive drug or be on hormone replacement therapy .
 table .
 sociodemographic characteristic of the subject with breast cancer undergo radiotherapy enrolled from the radiotherapy service at so luca hospital brazil distribute in the experimental and control group .
 control experimental p value age range 36 year 45 65 year year of education caucasian1116 afro american34 marital married or partnered79 single23 separated divorced36 widowed22 protestants46 employment full not .
 full-size table .
 difference in proportion between group ethnicity marital status religion and employment status be test by mean of 2 test .
 difference regard age and year of education be assess by mean of independent t test .
 view within article .
 psychological assessment .
 experimental and control group show a similar stress and depression score at the preintervention period baseline .
 however patient of the experimental group be much anxious than subject of control group at baseline stai-trait stai-trace and bai .
 the follow analysis be thus control for basal anxiety level stai-trait .
 the psychological score do not change over time in the control group all .
 however the experimental group show significantly reduce level of stress anxiety and depression score follow the 24 day rvt all .
 this datum indicate the efficacy of the rvt program use in this study to attenuate the emotional distress present during radiotherapy treatment .
 table .
 psychological assessment at the baseline and follow 24 day of rvt obtain in patient with breast cancer undergo radiotherapy .
 variablescontrolexperimental baselineposteffect sizebaselineposteffect size issl issl issl stai state stai trait .
 full-size table .
 data be present as .
 preintervention experimental .
 preintervention experimental .
 preintervention experimental .
 preintervention control pair t test .
 view within article .
 cortisol assessment .
 in this study we be able to assess hpa axis function by mean of measure salivary cortisol level across the day .
 salivary cortisol level differ significantly over the three sampling time f .
 cortisol peak in the morning and present a nadir at night with a regular circadian pattern for both group .
 cortisol level do not differ between experimental and control group at baseline f .
 this be also show by similar integrate cortisol level auc cortisol between control nmol l per hour and experimental nmol l per hour group .
 there be an interaction between cortisol level and group at baseline indicate that morning 8 cortisol level be high in the control compare to experimental group f although this only approach statistical significance .
 cortisol level do not change over time in the control group f .
 the rvt be not effective to change cortisol level in the experimental group f .
 full-size image 24k pre and post rvt intervention salivary cortisol level obtain by ria across the day 8 12 and 8 in the control and experimental group of patient with breast cancer .
 data present as .
 the rvt do not change cortisol level .
 view within article .
 lymphocyte proliferation and sensitivity to gc .
 mitogen-induced t-cell proliferation be evaluate as an index of nonspecific cell-mediated immunity .
 pha-induced proliferative response differ significantly across the three mitogen concentration f .
 repeated-measures anova reveal that experimental and control group show a similar t-cell proliferation at baseline f .
 the proliferative response do not change over the time in the control group f or follow rvt in the experimental group f .
 there be no significant interaction between group x phase baseline and post intervention .
 full-size image 22k pha-induced t-cell proliferation response obtain during pre and post rvt in control and experimental group of patient with breast cancer .
 pbmc be isolate and cultured in vitro with pha for 96 h .
 proliferation viability be estimate by colorimetric assay .
 data present as mean .
 the response differ across the pha concentration .
 the rvt do not produce significant change in t-cell proliferation response .
 view within article .
 we also investigate the functional gc immunomodulatory action by incubate peripheral lymphocyte with steroid .
 both dex and cort produce significant dose-dependent suppression of t-cell proliferation all 3 .
 at baseline lymphocyte of experimental group be much sensitive to cort f and dex f although it only approach statistical significance in the latter .
 there be no change in cellular sensitivity to dex f or cort f over the time in the control group .
 the rvt do not produce change in t-cell sensitivity to dex f or cort f .
 there be no interaction between group x phase for both steroid .
 full-size image 46k peripheral t-cell sensitivity to gc assess at pre and post rvt in control a and c and experimental group b and d of patient with breast cancer .
 cellular sensitivity be estimate by the ability of gc to suppress pha-induced t-cell proliferation .
 glucocorticoid include an agonist dexamethasone to the gr and a natural steroid corticosterone that bind to both gr and mineralocorticoid receptor .
 data present as percentage of basal proliferation without steroid .
 both dex and cort produce significant dose-dependent suppression of t-cell proliferation all .
 the rvt do not produce significant change in cellular sensitivity to dexamethasone or corticosterone .
 view within article .
 relationship between psychological endocrine and immune variable .
 first we evaluate the potential impact of psychological status on cortisol and immune measure .
 no significant correlation be note at baseline .
 residualized change score be calculate to associate psychological and physiological outcome over time .
 pearson 's partial correlation be then compute to examine the strength and direction of any relationship between the cortisol index and the psychological variable .
 data be control for basal anxiety level stai-trait .
 it be observe that only the change in stai-trace score be negatively correlated to change in cortisol level at 12 h .
 we then investigate the relationship between cortisol level and immune measure .
 significant relationship be observe at baseline only .
 in particular morning cortisol level 8 be negatively correlated mitogen-induced proliferation pha pha and pha although the latter only approach statistical significance .
 in addition cortisol level be inversely correlated to t-cell sensitivity to gc .
 in particular morning 8 cortisol level be correlated to auc dex and auc cort cortisol level at noon be correlated to auc cort and auc dex although the latter only approach statistical significance .
 therefore increase cortisol level at baseline be associate with reduce cellular sensitivity to gc .
 discussion .
 both breast cancer and conventional therapeutic be frequently associate with psychological distress and poor quality of life .
 we investigate here the psychological endocrine and immunological effect of a 24 day stress management intervention rvt in patient with breast cancer undergo radiotherapy .
 to knowledge this be the first report that such intervention have be attempt during the brief window of radiotherapy .
 the intervention be effective to reduce psychological distress while not change cortisol level lymphocyte proliferation and sensitivity to gc .
 datum be in agreement with previous work show rvt-related attenuation of psychological distress in patient with cancer .
 this positive finding have a pivotal importance consider that depressed cancer patient have the poor prognosis and reduce survival rate .
 the proactive attitude elicit by stress management intervention may be an important step towards a much integrative approach in treat cancer patient .
 as the negative burden of stress anxiety and or depression worsen quality of life it have be show that a significant response to rvt be associate with improve quality of life of breast cancer patient .
 although previous work have demonstrate that rvt be capable to ameliorate psychological distress it be largely unknown to what extent this alteration can be translated into physiological change .
 here we evaluate salivary cortisol as stress-related physiological marker of the hpa axis .
 the assessment of cortisol in saliva have prove a stress-free procedure and reliable measure of unbound steroid in the circulation be little affect by alteration in protein binding and have be use in the investigation of stress-related disorder .
 however we observe that cortisol level remain unchanged following rvt .
 this be in contrast to previous study that have report decrease in cortisol level follow stress management intervention in breast cancer .
 a previous work that evaluate daytime salivary cortisol in 59 breast or prostate cancer patient before and after a 8 week intervention use meditation and yoga kabat zinn method .
 in that study the intervention be also able to attenuate stress score without change salivary cortisol level .
 however it be observe that the intervention be only effective to reduce cortisol level in those patient with high cortisol level at baseline .
 this be also similarly observe in two other intervention that analyzed serum cortisol in breast cancer .
 in study salivary cortisol level at baseline do not influence this endocrine assessment follow rvt datum not show .
 further work be necessary to disentangle this conflict observation .
 several author have demonstrate a relationship between psychological stress and weaken of the immune system .
 conversely it have be show that stress management intervention be capable to attenuate change the impact of stress on immunological parameter in breast cancer .
 the immunological parameter include peripheral cell count cytokine and functional assay natural killer cell activity and lymphocyte proliferation .
 it should be note that much study describe immunological change rather than rvt-related increase in a specific immunological variable .
 to date it be largely unknown to what extent this immunological change be relate to clinical benefit .
 the immunological effect of stress and relaxation may in part be explain by the reduce release of stress hormone catecholamines and gc and increase peripheral neuropeptide opioid .
 in contrast to previous work we demonstrate here that rvt be ineffective to change t-cell proliferation .
 the measurement of peripheral hormone may not be sufficient to determine the functional hormonal action in target tissue .
 therefore we investigate for the first time the rvt effect on peripheral lymphocyte sensitivity to gc in vitro .
 in line with unchanged cortisol level t-cell sensitivity to gc also do not vary follow rvt .
 taking together datum suggest that rvt in cohort of breast cancer patient be unable to translate psychological into biological change .
 how might positive psychological change not result in enhance physiological parameter this paradox be explain by several methodological and clinical difference between and previous study include type and duration of intervention sample size clinical feature and psychological morbidity .
 indeed patient enrolled in this study present moderate level of stress anxiety or depression score .
 we speculate that patient with worsen psychological morbidity would be much benefit from the rvt and present much intense attenuation of emotional burden .
 it be also speculate that the timing of such intervention during active treatment be suboptimal and they may be much effective when administer later to quell dysallostatic load .
 indeed clinically significant distress often be find to onset month follow completion of all cancer therapiesa time when dysallostatic load would be expect to have much impact .
 although intervention be significantly short than previous work that perform the rvt for 8 week the psychological distress reduce in similar magnitude to previous study .
 perhaps a long intervention may be much clearly associate with meaningful endocrine and or immunological change .
 in this regard donaldson observe significant increase in white blood cell count in patient with aids or cancer follow day of rvt .
 it should be highlight however that rvt consist of daily group session along with extra session perform individually at home use a tape .
 this should have help the patient to further strengthen coping skill to the disease as well as make them participant in treatment .
 we find significant relationship between psychological morbidity and physiological variable .
 the experimental group be find particularly much anxious than control at baseline and anxiety stai-trace level be positively correlated to cortisol level follow rvt .
 this be compatible to the knowledge of stress-related activation of the hpa axis .
 in addition morning cortisol level be inversely correlated to t-cell proliferation and sensitivity to gc at baseline .
 this datum be in line with the knowledge that stress hormone modulate the immune system and make lymphocyte much resistant to gc during chronic stress .
 indeed acquire steroid resistance have be observe in several stress-related pathology include chronic stress major depression and ptsd .
 overall this finding lend far support to the idea that psychological distress alter psychoneuroimmune parameter .
 the exposure to radiation may be a confound variable in this study .
 indeed local radiation therapy have be associate with long-term effect on both immune and endocrine system .
 the immunological effect include immunosuppression blunt proliferation and change in cellular trafficking .
 however finding be not compatible with those observation .
 indeed cell of both experimental and control subject have similar proliferation rate compare to healthy control previously recruit in laboratory .
 in addition cortisol level be also compatible to salivary assessment observe in healthy subject .
 however the potential override effect of radiation on stress hormone and immune function be discard consider they may have saturate the limited effect of rvt .
 in conclusion this study add to the grow literature suggest that rvt can effectively attenuate psychological distress and may thus improve the quality of life of cancer patient undergo radiotherapy .
 further study be necessary to explore the underlie physiological mechanism involve with attenuation of stress in long-term group intervention .
 it be also necessary to understand to what extent rvt-related psychoneuroimmunological change be relate to clinical progress or remission of the disease .
 a relatively large amount of datum on cancer patient have be collect over the last few year but the result of datum mining be directly affect by the quantity and quality of the datum .
 the nobel price winner joshua lederberg state data be the building block of knowledge and the seed of discovery .
 they challenge us to develop new concept theory and model to make sense of the pattern we see in them .
 successful application of datum mining to cancer patient datum can result in new knowledge which can assist in cancer diagnosis and in the choice of treatment .
 more than one million people be diagnose worldwide with breast cancer in the year accord to the international agency for research on cancer 's iarc extensive database ferlay bray pisani parkin .
 the number of new case have be increase for the last few decade especially in the western part of the world .
 in iceland the number of newly diagnose patient have be steadily increase since 1958 whilst the number of patient die of breast cancer have remain nearly the same jonason tryggvadottir .
 survival at five year after the initial diagnosis have change from be little than during the year 1959 1963 to about during the year 1994 1998 make the prognosis of patient with breast cancer one of the good among all cancer .
 the purpose of this study be to build a predictive outcome model pom that accurately classify newly diagnose patient into either of the follow two class no-event and recurrence-event of cancer five year after diagnosis .
 the research be based on a datum set rose which be assemble in cooperation with the cancer centre of research and development at the university hospital in iceland during the year 1996 1998 .
 the rose database include a relative small number of instance 257 but a large number of feature .
 the feature that be use for this study have to be fact collect from the time when the patient be first diagnose and treat .
 in clinical practice patient be classify into risk group when diagnose with breast cancer .
 it be therefore of interest to be able to conduct an experiment where the result of the classifier model would be compare to the result obtain from the clinical practice .
 this result in the introduction of a new three-valued feature name risk to the rose dataset .
 the risk feature be the estimate evaluate by a doctor of the risk for a newly diagnose patient to show mark of the disease within five year of diagnosis .
 the medical doctor group the patient into three risk group high intermediate or low risk of recurrence .
 it be expect that the performance of the pom be improve by add this feature to the datum set .
 a secondary objective be to use the specialist 's risk estimate for each patient as a class attribute to see whether the pom simulate the pattern implicitly use by the medical doctor for estimate this risk .
 for the prediction a pom be build from a training set of instance whereas each instance be characterize by some set of give feature .
 building a valid and reliable pom can both be difficult and time consume .
 firstly the modeller need to clean the datum and select the much appropriate feature and class attribute .
 secondly the datum instance which the learn process will be based upon have to be choose and a learn method have to be select from a range of algorithm currently available .
 finally the modeller need to assess the reliability of the obtain result .
 herein a model selection tool mst be construct in order to ease the process of build an effective pom .
 as already mention the result pom be to be use to predict the five year outcome for a newly diagnose breast cancer patient use appropriate information about the patient .
 this tool be implement on top of the datum mining package weka witten frank .
 an important aspect of the study be to gain well understanding of the relative importance of the feature include and to prepare the datum for the datum mining task .
 specific question that be address be how many and what type of feature have to be select to reach a satisfactory prediction whether there be a learn algorithm that be significantly well than other for this type of datum and whether a subjective evaluation from a doctor have a mark influence on the result .
 brief review of relate work .
 lee and co-worker 1999 use a linear support vector machine svm to extract 6 out of 31 feature from a datum set include 253 breast cancer patient .
 the datum set wpbcc wisconsin prognostic breast cancer chemotherapy database be publicly available wolberg lee mangasarian 1999 and contain feature which be obtain before and during surgery .
 classification be based on divide the patient into those with node-negative disease no lymph node metastases and node-positive disease with lymph node metastases patient .
 the patient be cluster into three prognostic group good node-negative intermediate 1 4 lymph node metastases and poor much than 4 lymph node metastases whereas each group have a distinct survival curve .
 based on the 6 select feature the model be use to assign new patient to one of the three prognostic group with associate survival curve .
 in lee mangasarian and wolberg improve cluster selection method even far result in a classifier that classify the breast cancer instance into the same three survival category with accuracy .
 fung mangasarian and shavlik carry out numerical test on the wpbcc datum set with a month cut off for predict recurrence or no recurrence of breast cancer .
 they use a support vector machine and report a test accuracy of use fold cross validation .
 another publicly available datum set contain information about breast cancer be the breast cancer data set zwitter soklic 1988 originally collect at the university medical center institute of oncology ljubljana slovenia .
 the outcome class be no-event and recurrence-event .
 the accuracy obtain be between and use different classification method .
 tsai king and higgins 1997 use an expert-guided decision tree to classify this datum set .
 result maximum accuracy indicate that an expert-guided approach be comparable to the optimal inductive learning approach .
 both the wbpcc and the breast cancer data set have be widely use for compare different classifier .
 pendharkar khosrowpour and rodger apply a bayesian network classifier and a datum envelopment analysis dea to a dataset collect from breast cancer patient in a large hospital in pennsylvania in order to discover pattern in the datum .
 the result of experiment indicate that dea and bayesian network classifier outperform statistical linear discriminate analysis .
 pendharkar rodger and yaverbaum 1999 have previously show that datum mining can be use for breast cancer diagnosis .
 delen walker and kadam report a accuracy use artificial neural network and decision tree respectively on a large dataset contain much than case collect from the year 1973 .
 this prediction accuracy be the well report in the literature so far and the size of this dataset be about time big than the size of other dataset report .
 the outcome class be define as any incidence of breast cancer where the person be still live after month 5 year from the date of diagnosis .
 the remainder of this paper be organize as follow .
 in section 3 the feature selection process be present .
 the different classification algorithm use will be review in section testing method and measure of testing performance of different classifier be describe in section the section 6 present the experimental design .
 result use real medical datum from the rose database be present in section discussion and conclusion follow in section section 8 and 9 respectively .
 feature selection .
 the quality of datum be important for datum mining project and a number of quality indicator can be use .
 accuracy and consistency be the two much important indicator of datum quality .
 the definition of each feature in the database should be analyzed .
 if a feature be not sufficiently well define the definition have to be correct or improve otherwise it should be delete from the database .
 as a result modelers be likely to exclude or redefine many feature from the database .
 it be a know rule of thumb from statistic that the number of instance should be exponential number of use feature .
 the rule be not quite as clear in datum mining but the fewer the input feature be for a classifier the simple the result classifier model will become and the chance of overfitting decrease which in turn enhance the usefulness of the model as a prognostic tool .
 when the choice of feature be too large a great effort be usually put into consider how the number of feature can be wieschaus schultz .
 as report by sebban and nock the goal of feature selection method be to reduce the cost and complexity of classifier improve model accuracy and improve the visualization and comprehensibility of induce concept .
 one way of select relevant feature from a database be to select them based on estimate importance .
 a rating scheme be construct that be use to evaluate the quality and relevance of the feature .
 a wide range of automatic feature selection method be also available .
 either way the size of the datum can be reduce significantly and irrelevant feature delete from the datum .
 the aim of the feature selection part of this study be to use mst to identify the dataset contain the small number of non-redundant feature which give the good result .
 algorithm use for classification .
 a variety of learn algorithm can be use for classification .
 amongst the much commonly apply classifier be the naive bayes nb algorithm john langley 1995 the decision tree j48 algorithm along with a wide variety of meta algorithm .
 a meta algorithm be an algorithm that combine result from other so-called base classifier .
 the naive bayes nb algorithm be based on bayes theorem and be a well-known and simple probabilistic classifier widely use for real datum set .
 the nb algorithm be fairly insensitive to the number of feature use and can be apply to all type of witten frank .
 for the implementation of the mst tool we use the weka waikato environment for knowledge analysis software to gain access to different classifier witten frank .
 weka include several standard machine-learning method which enable the user to apply machine learn to derive useful knowledge from database that be too large to be analyzed by hand .
 machine learn algorithm differ in the way they use the feature in the datum set .
 much of them be design to learn the much appropriate feature and ignore irrelevant or redundant feature .
 the performance of a classifier can in practice be improve by feature reduction .
 an example of a type of algorithm that do not use all possible feature be the decision tree algorithm .
 it use relevant feature and ignore irrelevant one by testing performance value of select feature but even this algorithm can be improve by reduce the amount of feature witten and frank and hall 1999 .
 the simple naive bayes nb classifier be use in this study as a reference algorithm for other algorithm to be benchmarked against .
 nb work well when test on actual datum set and have often outperformed much sophisticated one .
 the design of nb assume that all feature be independent of one another .
 if redundant feature be present or there be dependency between feature in the datum set the result can be misleading .
 the result of reduce irrelevant or redundant feature show up in well performance of the nb classifier witten frank .
 testing and measure performance of different classifier .
 each time a model be construct and train it be important to test it for validity and reliability .
 when training and testing be perform on the same datum set the result be usually optimistic since the training algorithm learn all the record involve .
 therefore it be well to use an independent supply test set for testing .
 both training and test datum be assume representative sample of the datum set and should not differ in nature .
 generally the large the training datum set the well classifier can be build and the much accurate the error estimate be .
 good error estimate can be hard to achieve for small datum set .
 cross validation be a repeat holdout procedure for testing .
 the splitting can be stratified or not .
 stratification mean that each class be represent with approximately same proportion of instance in all subset .
 use stratified cross validation with group have become a standard method for evaluation witten frank .
 all the training testing method mention above can be use in the mst .
 the fold cross validation be much common and be claim to give the much reliable result witten frank .
 when compare two learn scheme some measure of evaluate performance have to be introduce .
 one common measure in the literature chawla bowyer hall kegelmeyer be accuracy define as correct classify instance divide by the total number of instance .
 multiplying this value with give the percent correct pc classification value .
 in addition to the pc value the mst include the kappa parameter cohen and eugenio and glas the true positive rate tp-rate sensitivity and the true negative rate tn-rate specificity the receiver operating characteristic roc and the area under the roc curve auc which be an accept performance metric for the roc curve .
 the remain subsections of this section will explain this method in far detail .
 tp-rate and tn-rate .
 for interpretation of the result of a classifier a confusion matrix can be calculate for each classifier .
 the confusion matrix be a simple table as show in table 5 where the upper row show the actual result for the positive class and the low row show the result for the negative class .
 the reliability of a test can by estimated by calculate sensitivity and specificity .
 the sensitivity be equal to the true positive rate tp-rate sensitivity tp fn .
 the specificity be equal to the true negative rate tn-rate specificity tn fp .
 in an imbalanced datum set with two class include high proportion of false record the value in the confusion matrix be highly dependent on the number of instance in each class .
 a classifier show high tn value can show low tp value and vice versa .
 a good prediction model in medicine should result in as low fn value as possible so few patient from the true class the sick patient will be miss .
 the tp-rate should further be high .
 however a model predict all instance as true result in tp-rate 1 and tn-rate i of no value .
 thus if tp-rate be use as a measure of performance tn-rate or fp false positive -rate 1 tn-rate should also be use .
 kappa .
 the kappa parameter measure pair wise agreement between two different observer correct for expect chance agreement .
 the value for kappa signify complete agreement between the classifier and the real world .
 the kappa value be calculate use the two-class confusion matrix show in table the kappa value can be calculate from follow equation whereas n be the total number of instance use .
 p a be the percentage of agreement between the classifier and the underlie truth and p e be the chance agreement .
 whereas k 1 indicate perfect agreement k indicate that there be no agreement other than that which would be expect by chance .
 k 1 mean perfect disagreement .
 eugenio and glas list two main way in which p e should be calculate .
 in practice the two computation of p e give similar result as the formula use in this study .
 kappa value can also be calculate for the case when the class attribute have much than two value so that we get an n n confusion matrix with n .
 krippendorff 's scale discount kappa and allow tentative conclusion when kappa and definitive conclusion if kappa rietveld and hout consider kappa value between and as indicator of fair agreement and kappa value kappa as indicate moderate agreement and value kappa as indicate substantial agreement .
 roc and auc .
 an alternative method for compare the performance of different classifier be to evaluate the area under the receiver operating characteristic roc curve auc .
 roc curve be plot where the observe tp-rate sensitivity be plot as a function of fp-rate 1 specificity for all possible threshold .
 the auc area under the roc curve be a measure of the difference between two class distribution and can be use for compare the quality of a classifier or compare class and have generalized the calculation of auc for multiple class classification problem .
 roc analysis be relate to cost benefit analysis of diagnostic decision-making and have be use in medicine for many year .
 only recently it have be use for estimate the result of datum mining experiment .
 roc analysis provide tool to select the good model independently of the class distribution .
 furthermore auc have be show to be a well evaluation measure than accuracy in context where misclassification include cost and or with imbalanced dataset hand and till fawcett bradley 1997 and lachiche and flach .
 kappa versus roc and auc .
 there be no obvious relationship between the kappa and auc since auc be a measure of ranking ability rank-based and kappa be a measure of hard classification agreement categorical .
 manel william and ormerod find that in practice the kappa parameter be highly significantly correlated with auc and conclude that kappa provide a simple and effective test of predictive performance .
 experimental design .
 in this study a tool be build to keep track of the preparation of the dataset and the training and testing process for model algorithm use .
 a small breast cancer dataset be use in the datum mining process .
 the model selection tool .
 the model selection tool mst be implement on top of the weka package and incorporate the follow six .
 analyze and preprocess the feature in the database and assess the correctness of the datum .
 define the class attribute which divide the set of instance into the appropriate class .
 extract potential feature to be use for classification .
 select a subset of feature to be use in the learn process .
 investigate a possible imbalance in the select datum set and how it may be counteract .
 select a subset of the instance the record that learn be to be based on .
 choose a classifier algorithm for the learn process .
 decide on a testing method to estimate the performance of the select algorithm .
 the mst include the choice of seventeen different classifier in step five .
 table 4 list the name of each of the 17 classifier along with a short description .
 the classifier be group into the follow 6 group bayes tree function meta rule and miscellaneous as show in table all 17 algorithm can deal with binary and multi-class target feature numeric and nominal feature and miss fold stratified cross validation procedure be the default method use for training and testing in the mst .
 the pom model be generate as an output of the six step illustrate above .
 along with the select learn algorithm the result pom can be use to classify new patient into survival group .
 a much detail explanation of each of the six step be not conduct herein .
 datasets .
 already during the database construction the datum preparation step start include analysis and preprocessing of the feature and definition of possible class attribute .
 the experience of a medical cancer specialist and the datum miner be use to manually reduce the number of feature by rating them accord to a rating scheme .
 known prognostic factor and similar feature that other author have use in work zwitter and soklic 1988 holte 1993 tsai et 1997 winikoff 1999 wolberg et 1999 and lee et 1999 be also use for feature reduction .
 the datum miner the first author be involve in the definition of the feature in the database and thus learn to know characteristic .
 based upon characteristic over base feature include date feature be manually select from the original feature .
 a base datum set name base-ds include all 257 instance be create by select 99 out of the previously choose feature with the help of a rating scheme .
 over different dataset be automatically generate by use mst to select various feature from the base-ds .
 the automatic feature selection method that be use be list in table they be associate with the search method best first rank search or genetic search but also include the simple rule-classifier method oner where one iteratively find the good rule include just one feature witten frank .
 the medical doctor select 22 feature from the base-ds dataset to be include in a new dataset name med-ds .
 this 22 feature be list in table 1 along with a short description .
 table .
 name of feature in the datum set med-ds and short description .
 namedescription ageage when diagnose tumfoundcoinca yes no indicator if the tumor be find in a medical examination nodesposa yes no indicator if the node be palpateble or suspicious nodespalpa yes no indicator if the node in be palpateble or suspicious inflamma yes no indicator if the affect breast be exhibit skin redness and experience pain and localized heat metlunga yes no indicator if a metastasis have be confirm on a lung x-ray film metbonea yes no indicator if a metastasis have be confirm on a isotope bone scan ca-153the numeric result of a laboratory test for a tumor marker ca-153 ceathe numeric result of a laboratory test for a tumor marker cea histotypehistological type .
 the structural pattern of cancer cell use to define a diagnosis tumlymphvessa yes no indicator to ask if small thin walled lymphatic invasion be detect in a tumor specimen tumbloodvessa yes no indicator to ask if large vessel vascular invasion be detect in a tumor specimen s-phasea field to report the percentage value of cell in s-phase numnodemetastthe total number of lymph node with micrometastases tumskina yes no indicator if cancer growth be include in the skin comorbiditya combination of 7 feature indicate if a patient have be diagnose before with define disease er-pgrthe type of er and pgr hormone receptor be test for presence in a sample sizepadpathologic primary tumor size .
 the measurement of the primary tumor by the pathologist preopmedan yes no indicator if chemotherapy be give pre operation radiathera yes no indicator indicate if the patient get an adjuvant radiotherapy chemothera yes no indicator indicate if the patient get an adjuvant chemotherapy hormthera yes no indicator indicate if the patient get an adjuvant hormonal therapy .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 a small dataset name small-ds be also generate from the base-ds and include five manually select feature .
 the feature include be the follow age nodespos metlung metbone chemother and the class attribute 5-years-state .
 two class attribute include 2 or 3 class value respectively be use to classify the instance in each of the dataset .
 the main class attribute be the real status or outcome of each patient 's disease measure five year after diagnosis the so-called 5-years-state .
 the 257 instance be supervise into two class from the 5-years-state feature .
 the class attribute have two class value of nominal type true 73 instance or false 184 instance indicate if the patient be with or without any sign of the disease five year after the cancer be diagnose .
 the other class attribute be the risk estimate by a doctor .
 when the risk feature be select as a class attribute the 5-years-state feature be exclude from the dataset .
 the mst tool be use to train and test seventeen different algorithm by the standard fold cross validation procedure on all the generate dataset .
 medical estimation of the risk for recurrence .
 as the result kappa value for much of the original result turn out to be rather low a medical doctor be ask to add one feature into the datum set .
 this feature be estimate of the individual risk for each patient .
 in categorize the patient the medical doctor be ask the follow question what be the risk of recurrence or death for this patient occur within five year after the diagnosis date high risk probability intermediate risk probability low risk probability .
 ten new datum set with the risk feature include be build from the base-ds use the mst .
 this ten datum set be all train and test use the mst .
 since kappa be often use in medical study and in order to investigate further the relationship between kappa and auc both auc and kappa be calculate for about half of the datum set use in this study .
 the auc value be plot as a function of the kappa value in as can be see there be an approximate linear relationship with the formula for the good line in a least square sense be auc kappa .
 the r-square value be this regression formula can thus be use to get an approximation to the auc value for a give kappa value for a two-valued class variable as be the case with the 5-years-state class but not for a three value class variable as be the case with the risk class .
 full-size image 52k linear regression with individual prediction interval .
 auc as function of kappa statistic .
 multiple datum set and classifier .
 view within article .
 the distribution of the value of the risk feature be list in table this distribution of instance be much balanced than the previous 5-years-risk class value where the distribution of the instance be 73 true instance versus 184 negative instance .
 also list in the table be the distribution of the value of the 5-years-state attribute for each risk value .
 table .
 the distribution of the 257 instance in the risk group accord to a subjective estimate by a doctor .
 risk groupnumber of instance 5-years-state true5-years-state false high risk 1 intermediate risk 2 low risk 3 .
 full-size table .
 the distribution of same instance in the 5-years-state group also list .
 view within article .
 table .
 the feature selection method .
 namea brief descriptionselecting way rating factorsrating the feature by estimate the importance and quality of each featuremanual local knowledgethe medical cancer specialist select the featuresmanual global knowledgepublished result of mine other database for breast cancermanual oneriteratively find the good rule include just one featureautomatically cfscorrelation based feature selection methodautomatically lvfconsistency subset evaluatorautomatically relieffeature weighting algorithm for ranking the featuresautomatically iginformation gain feature evaluationautomatically j48decision treeautomatically .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 experimental result .
 this section describe the result obtain use the three follow dataset base-ds med-ds and small-ds .
 the result generate when the risk feature be include in the dataset be also assess .
 the performance result for all the dataset be display in table 6a table 6b and table 6c for the naive bayes algorithm the j48 decision tree and the simple part rule selection algorithm .
 table 6a show the prediction of the 5-years-state outcome not use the risk feature .
 table 6b show the prediction of the 5-years-state outcome use the risk feature .
 table 6c show the prediction of the value of the risk attribute .
 from the table it seem that the result depend partly on which performance parameter be use to judge the performance of the classifier .
 table 6a .
 predicting 5-years-state outcome not use risk feature .
 data setalgorithmnumber of featurespc kappa valueaucsensitivityspecificitysize of tree leavesnumber of rule 27 14 5 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 table 6b .
 predicting 5-years-state outcome use risk feature .
 data setalgorithmnumber of featurespc kappa valueaucsensitivityspecificitysize of tree leavesnumber of rule 27 17 5 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 table 6c .
 predicting 5-years-state outcome use risk feature .
 data setalgorithmnumber of featurespc kappa valueauc-1auc-2auc-3number of rule 23 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 the datum set .
 the datum set base-ds contain 98 feature and the class attribute 5-years-state .
 the result j48 prune decision tree for the datum set be a tree of size 47 include 27 leave .
 pc and kappa auc sensitivity and specificity the size of this tree show that just a small part of the available feature be use .
 the evaluation result be based on fold cross validation but the tree give be based on all the training datum .
 the result for the naive bayes classifier be pc kappa auc sensitivity and specificity .
 med-ds include 22 feature choose by the doctor for make a risk assessment and the class attribute 5-years-state .
 the result j48 prune decision tree have 25 node include 14 leave .
 the pc value be kappa value be auc be sensitivity be and specificity be the evaluation result be again based on fold cross validation but the tree give be based on all the training datum .
 the result for the naive bayes classifier be pc kappa auc sensitivity and specificity the feature belong to med-ds be list in table .
 comparing subset of the base datum set base-ds in order to find an optional datum set the distribution of result pc value use the nb classifier be analyzed .
 17 time the pc value show high value than and 92 time between and .
 the result pc value for the j48 decision tree show 68 time pc value high than and 37 time value between and .
 pc value for other classifier give similar result .
 many of the datum set show high pc value than when classify with the j48 decision tree algorithm result in the same small decision tree of size 5 include 3 leave .
 this tree use only two feature the feature nodespos and metbone .
 a typical pc value be and kappa value .
 a decision tree contain 5 leave be build by include all the feature in the small-ds .
 the result pc value be kappa and auc the sensitivity be and specificity be .
 no definite optimal datum set be find neither by use automatic feature selection method nor use local or global knowledge .
 the performance when the risk feature be include in the datum set .
 the result j48 prune decision tree for the datum set base-ds include the risk feature be the same tree as without the risk feature .
 this tree i of size 47 include 27 leave and result in pc kappa auc sensitivity and specificity the include risk feature be neither a node nor a leaf in the decision tree for this datum set .
 the j48 prune decision tree be present in 2 for the datum set med-ds include the risk feature .
 the result tree have the size include 17 leave .
 one leaf of the original tree for this datum set have be replace with two new node and 4 leave .
 the performance of the classifier be similar as before .
 the pc value be kappa value be auc be sensitivity be and specificity be .
 full-size image 78k j48 prune decision tree .
 risk feature include in the datum set .
 view within article .
 the effect of include an additional feature the subjective risk assessment of a medical doctor do not give well classification result for this two datum set .
 neither do insert the risk feature into the datum set small-ds result in any well performance .
 predicting the subjective assessment of the doctor .
 choosing the risk assessment as the class attribute result in high kappa value which mean that the classifier in general seem to be much successful in predict the doctor 's risk assessment than the actual outcome for the datum set med-ds .
 higher kappa value might have to do with the fact that the risk class be a three-valued class attribute compare with the two-valued class attribute difference in percent correct value be negligible .
 the j48 prune decision tree with the risk assessment feature as a class attribute have the size 36 and 22 leave .
 the pc value be kappa value auc value calculate for each risk group be and for group 1 2 and 3 respectively show that the instance that be the hard to classify be the instance belong to the intermediate risk 2 class .
 sensitivity tp rate for each risk group be and show a similar trend .
 the high pc value range from to with standard deviation of about for the seventeen classifier use .
 when a datum set with just 8 feature include exactly as many true as false instance the high value for kappa be indicate a moderate agreement .
 all other test do use the 5-years-state class show low kappa value .
 discussion .
 after testing much than different datum set it have become clear that it be difficult to find one datum set that outperform other with the prediction of recurrence of cancer .
 furthermore the number of feature include in the datum set do not seem to have a large impact on the result since similar result be obtain regardless of whether the dataset contain five or a much high number of feature .
 as simplicity be usually preferred to avoid overfitting small datum set would be well suit to build an effective and efficient .
 additionally clinical cost and the time require to collect many feature be reduce by use small dataset .
 none of the select classifier list in table 4 show a significantly well performance than the standard nb classifier .
 the performance of the simple decision tree classifier j48 come close to the performance of the nb classifier .
 therefore the good classifier to select seem to be either the naive bayes or the j48 decision tree .
 the benefit of use simple decision tree be that the result can be easily visualize when build from a small dataset .
 however it should be note that the performance of some classifier those based on support vector machine critically depend on proper tuning of the parameter .
 we have not pay close attention to that in this study .
 table .
 the 17 classifier .
 namea brief descriptiongroup the naive bayesiana simple and a well-established approach to probabilistic inductionbayes decision tree j48an extension of the decision tree algorithmtree logistic model treeclassification tree with logistic regression function at the leavestree rep treea decision regression tree use information gain variance and reduced-error pruningtree random foresta forest of random tree be constructedtree support vector machinesimplements the sequential minimal optimization algorithm smo function logisticmultinominal logistic regression model with a ridge estimatorfunction simple logisticlinear logistic regression with a simple regression function as base learnersfunction meta classifier 1bagging schememeta meta classifier 2adaboost schememeta meta classifier 3diverse ensemble creation by oppositional relabeling of artificial training example decoratemeta bagging rep treea meta bagging classifier use rep decision treemeta decision tablea simple decision table majority classifierrule onerminimum error feature use for predictionrule partgenerating rule setsrule jripimplements a prepositional rule learnerrule voting feature interval vfi feature projection and a voting schememiscellaneous .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 table .
 a confusion matrix .
 actual statepredicted patient state classified as true positive classified as false negative class be true positive tpfn class be false negative fptn .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 including the risk feature do not improve the result of any of the 17 classifier .
 this be somewhat surprising since the risk feature be build from know prognostic factor and clinical practice .
 this may show that we have not yet find the right prognostic factor to use .
 however the result of classify the instance into the risk class show how well an algorithm approximate a medical doctor 's estimate of the risk of recurrence for an individual patient .
 it do not have a direct prediction value for the real outcome of the patient or the state of the patient five year after diagnosis but it do predict the risk group with moderate kappa value .
 this study show that medical information include diagnosis and treatment information be use to predict the 5-years-state outcome for a newly diagnose patient with 75 predictive accuracy pc .
 if kappa value be preferred for evaluate the classifier performance the result value be show only fair agreement from to reporting the kappa value be unusual since much study report performance of model use accuracy sensitivity and or specificity .
 much learn algorithm treat true and false example as equally important and the aim be to maximize accuracy .
 when work with imbalanced datum set the imbalance and misclassification cost be relate to each other .
 one way to counteract for the imbalance in the datum set use in study with imbalanced datum set be to raise the cost of misclassifying the false class drummond holte .
 classifier be typically evaluate by predictive accuracy pc .
 when the datum set be imbalanced this might not be appropriate .
 the tp- tn- fp- and tp-rate parameter be at least as important for interpret the result of a classifier as correctly classify instance .
 in this study the kappa value and the auc value be also compute .
 result show high kappa value or auc value be not necessarily consistent with high pc value .
 in recent year new biological datum element have be measure for every new cancer patient .
 for future study those feature should be include and collect as soon as they be available .
 if datum be publish use a control vocabulary and standard form datum easily be understand and share by other szalay gray .
 with cooperation of different scientific domain a standardization of datum elements1 eventually be establish to develop a large medical database include valuable information .
 in the meantime it be vital to compare result of mining effort to other research study both with respect to feature selection and performance .
 in this study whereas the database be relatively small the high classification accuracy obtain be .
 a long-term goal be to create a model that would be much reliable than current one even if it be build from a small database .
 the pom create in this research study be not to be view as the final model but be a step towards reach such a long-term goal .
 conclusion .
 in the case study only 257 instance be available .
 the result of this study give rise to continue this work by collect datum from patient diagnose in the year 1999 and later when five year have pass from the diagnosis of the respective patient .
 it would also be valuable to collect select information from the year before 1996 and to create a new class attribute use 8 or year instead of only 5 year .
 use survival status at month also be use as a class attribute for big dataset instead of the outcome of the disease .
 there be great need to continue the work conduct in this research study .
 the model selection tool that have be develop should prove useful in the construction of a much reliable predictive outcome model .
 such a model would have to be build from a larger standardized database than the one use in this study .
 if new biological datum feature be also include there be good prospect for a practical predictive outcome model .
 acknowledgement .
 the author thank thorhildur juliusdottir for the critical reading and assistance in manuscript preparation .
 breast cancer be represent by a heterogeneous population of tumor characterize by clinico-pathologic marker such as age t stage nodal status pathologic grade er pr status or her2 status 2 .
 as this marker help define the need for adjuvant therapy molecular marker have the potential to refine prognosis and response to therapy 3 .
 study indicate that young woman with early stage breast cancer experience a poorer local relapse-free cause-specific and distant metastasis-free survival than old counterpart 4 5 6 and 7 .
 it would be of interest to establish biologic factor that can conveniently identify this pattern of failure in young woman undergo breast conservation 4 8 9 and 11 .
 perou et 12 use cdna microarray profile study to categorize breast carcinoma into the follow five distinct subtype luminal a and or her2- luminal b and or her2 overexpressing er- pr- basal-like er- pr- her2- ck 5 and normal breast tissue .
 further study show poorer local relapse-free survival in those tumor represent the basal-like cancer blc 13 and 14 .
 nielson et far characterize the blc via the triple negative tn phenotype which comprise those tumor that do not express er pr or her2 neu on immunohistochemistry 14 .
 outcome in a heterogeneous cohort of conservatively manage breast cancer as a function of this classification scheme recently demonstrate by haffty et 15 depict the tn phenotype as a significant independent predictor of distant metastasis and poorer cause-specific survival with no difference in local relapse .
 the blc can also be characterize by cytokeratin marker such as ck5 6 or ck17 16 17 and 18 .
 in contrast breast cancer of luminal origin be er pr positive and represent by epithelial marker such as ck19 .
 basal cytokeratin marker ck 5 6 and ck17 be associate with the overexpression of epidermal growth factor receptor egfr or her1 and p53 14 and 19 and have be correlated with poor clinical outcome 16 and .
 gene expression array analysis reveal that brca1 mutate genotype display a similar genetic profile as blc 21 22 and 23 .
 the current study examine in a cohort of young woman who undergo breast-conserving surgery and radiotherapy local relapse-free distant metastasis-free and overall survival as a function of ck19 status .
 as a surrogate marker of blc we seek to compare ck19 negativity with standard clinicopathologic variable as an independent risk factor of aggressive disease .
 method and material patient .
 patient select for the current study have specific inclusion requirement include the follow 1 patient have conservatively manage stage i ii breast cancer treat by lumpectomy and adjuvant radiotherapy 2 patient age be 49 year or young at the time of breast cancer diagnosis and 3 paraffin-embedded tissue block of primary breast cancer from archives of this hospital or referring hospital be available for processing .
 a total of 158 patient meet all of the inclusion criterion as state above .
 the protocol for chart review and archived tumor specimen use be review and approve by the institutional review board .
 all patient in this study be treat surgically with breast-conserving surgery with or without axillary lymph node dissection .
 standard radiation treatment rt parameter use be the follow rt deliver to the whole intact breast with regional nodal irradiation deliver as clinically indicate 4- to 6-mev photon be use at a daily fraction size of gy to a total median dose of approximately gy .
 adjuvant systemic chemotherapy and or adjuvant hormone therapy be administer as clinically indicate in accordance with standard practice during this time interval .
 immunohistochemical analysis of tissue microarray for expression of er pr her2neu p53 and ck19 .
 a tissue microarray be construct for this analysis .
 a pathologist examine hematoxylin and eosin stain slide of the archived paraffin block and circle representative tumor section .
 from this tumor section two mm core be extract use a tissue microarrayer beecher instruments silver spring md .
 area of tumor distinct from normal epithelium be identify on the stain slide by a pathologist and mark for subsequent analysis .
 section of the microarray 5 m thick be cut with a tape-based tissue transfer system intrumedics hackensack nj and process as describe previously 24 .
 the promise of tissue microarray biopsy have be previously validate in a variety of tumor include head and neck colorectal and lung 25 26 and 27 .
 immunohistochemical analysis be perform on 5-m-thick tissue section prepare from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded archival tissue from the resected primary tumor .
 tissue section be deparaffinized and then quench in hydrogen peroxide methanol solution .
 slide be incubate overnight at 4c with the follow antibody 1 er mouse monoclonal antihuman er dako 2 pr mouse monoclonal antihuman pr dako 3 her-2 neu rabbit polyclonal anti-her-2 neu oncoprotein dako 4 p53 mouse monoclonal antihuman p53 oncoprotein dako and 5 ck19 mouse monoclonal anti-cytokeratin 19 ventana tucson az .
 the next day slide be incubate with secondary antibody labeled with avidin-biotin complex streptavidin-peroxidase elite vector laboratory burlingame incubate with the chromogen diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride counterstained with hematoxylin dehydrated with ethanol and mount .
 assessment of all five biomarker stain be quantitative and qualitative and do by a single experience pathologist who be blind to patient outcome .
 for each core the region of predominant staining intensity be score .
 er and pr be assess by the number of positive stain nucleus .
 for her-2 neu only membrane staining be score positive .
 a numeric score range from to 3 that reflect the staining intensity and pattern in or much tumor be use .
 for her2 status numeric score of 2 or 3 be consider positive .
 ck19 staining intensity be score as none 1 faint or focal 2 moderate 3 strong and percent distribution of cytoplasmic staining .
 for core that be uninterpretable because of tissue loss or lack of tumor cell a score of not applicable n a be give .
 as see in figure 1 ck19 status be consider positive if staining intensity be and of epithelial distribution .
 assessment of p53 staining be similar to ck19 except that only nuclear reactivity be score .
 for p53 little than nuclear reactivity in tumor cell be score as low p53 expression and or greater nuclear reactivity be score as high p53 expression .
 full-size image staining characteristic of cytokeratin 19 ck19 antibody on tissue microarray tma .
 a ck19-negative phenotype b ck19-positive phenotype .
 view within article .
 statistical analysis .
 ck19 status and relevant co-variables be assemble in a database and analyzed use sas user 's guide version sas institute cary nc .
 all test of statistical significance be two-sided .
 value of p be consider statistically significant .
 the study endpoint be local relapse distant metastasis-free survival and overall survival include all death .
 loco-regional recurrence be define as clinically and biopsy-proven relapse in the ipsilateral breast .
 distant metastases be define as clinical evidence of distant disease based on clinical and or radiographic evidence .
 both endpoint be calculate from the date of radiation therapy completion as this represent the start of continuous risk for relapse .
 median follow-up be calculate by the reverse kaplan-meier method .
 the independent variable for this analysis include race degree of family history histology t stage nodal status tn status p53 status ck19 expression and brca1 2 mutation .
 the molecular profile of this patient be correlated with clinical-pathologic factor local distant relapse-free and overall survival .
 the association between ck19 co-variables and outcome be assess in a multivariate model .
 bivariate analysis for the association between co-variables and ck19 status and tn status include the chi-square test and the fisher 's exact test .
 bivariate analysis for the association between predictor variable and local and distant recurrence and overall survival be conduct use the kaplan meier log-rank test and the chi-square test for linear trend .
 univariate survival analysis be do with the cox proportional hazard model which be use to calculate unadjusted relative risk for year local relapse lr year distant metastasis-free survival dmfs and year poor overall survival os .
 in the multivariate analysis cox proportional hazard regression determine significant predictor of disease-free survival and overall survival at a level of p in the final model .
 result descriptive statistic .
 all patient in this cohort be treat with breast-conserving surgery and adjuvant radiation therapy for early-stage invasive breast cancer .
 also all patient be young than 49 year of age with a median age of year at the time of diagnosis and treatment .
 with a median follow-up of year a total of patient experience a local relapse as the first site of failure result in a year actuarial lr-free rate of .
 with a total of 38 distant metastases the year dmfs be .
 the year actuarial overall survival rate for the entire cohort be .
 table 1 summarize the frequency statistic for the clinico-pathologic characteristic of the patient cohort include demographic stage and molecular marker status .
 positive expression of er pr her-2 neu ck19 and p53 be and respectively .
 table .
 patient characteristic .
 age y median range25 49 race ethnicity white118 family history unknown none132 moderate strong26 histology ductal135 lobular8 other14 tumor size cm t1 t2 44 nodal status negative97 positive37 er status negative91 positive45 pr status negative91 positive48 her2 status negative127 positive14 triple-negative status positive68 negative68 p53 status positive29 cytokeratin 19 status negative27 brca1 mutation no64 yes6 brca2 mutation no66 yes4 adjuvant treatment chemotherapy95 158 hormonal therapy39 158 full-size table .
 view within article .
 of the 158 patient in this cohort have undergo brca1 2 genetic testing and of this 6 be positive for brca1 mutation and 4 have deleterious brca2 mutation .
 family history be consider moderate-strong if one or much first-degree relative be diagnose with breast cancer at time of diagnosis .
 approximately two third of the patient have pathologic stage t1 disease and much than two third of the patient be node negative .
 triple-negative status be evenly split n 68 each in this cohort .
 adjuvant cytotoxic chemotherapy be use in 95 of the 158 patient whereas 39 of 158 patient receive hormonal therapy .
 the ck19 status be as follow 27 have no staining 29 have faint or focal staining 24 have moderate staining and 52 have strong staining .
 with accordance to analysis parameter as above sample be define as ck19-positive and the remain 27 be define as ck19-negative .
 as see in figure 1 those tumor that be sufficiently immunoreactive with the ck19 antibody show cytoplasmic granular staining as the negative control show no staining .
 for p53 expression the p53-positive phenotype be define as a staining intensity with 28 of 139 core positive .
 chi-square analysis .
 use chi-square analysis and fisher 's exact test ck19-negative status be significantly associate with tn phenotype p .
 as see in table 2 other prognostic variable such as race ethnicity family history tumor histology t stage or nodal status be not significantly associate with the ck19-negative phenotype .
 also ck19 status do not correlate with other molecular marker such as p53 expression or brca1 2 mutation .
 table .
 association between cytokeratin 19 ck19 status triple-negative tn status and prognostic factor .
 ck19 statustn status prognostic factorpositivenegativep valuetnnon-tnp value race black156149 family unknown moderate strong518148 ductal91225362 lobular5133 other84122 tumor t169184347 nodal tn a p53 negative81194561 positive227227 ck19 statusn brca1 no43132828 brca2 no44143226 yes2122 .
 full-size table .
 statistically significant .
 view within article .
 as expect all 6 patient exhibit brca1 mutation be of tn phenotype p .
 although lobular histology be equally distribute ductal histology be much prevalent in the non-tn phenotype as compare with tn phenotype p .
 the tn phenotype do not correlate with any other clinico-pathologic parameter as show in table .
 univariate analysis .
 as depict in the univariate analysis in table 3 t2 stage be a significant predictor for year dmfs rr ci p and year os rr ci p .
 nodal status be also significantly associate with dmfs rr ci p and os rr ci p .
 the use of adjuvant chemotherapy be not associate with local p distant p or overall benefit p for the entire cohort .
 the tn phenotype be not correlated with lr dmfs or os p in this study .
 table .
 univariate analysis of prognostic factor for year local relapse distant metastasis free survival dmfs and overall survival .
 os prognostic factorrr ci p valuerr ci p valuerr ci p value race family unknown moderate tumor nodal tn p53 ck19 brca1 brca2 full-size table .
 abbreviation adj adjunct ci confidence interval lr local relapse os overall survival reference group rr risk ratio .
 statistically significant .
 view within article .
 the ck19-negative phenotype be a statistically significant predictor for poor lr rr ci p dmfs rr ci p and os rr ci p .
 kaplan-meier survival curve for year lr-free survival dmfs and os with respect to ck19 status be present in 2 3 and 4 respectively .
 as show in figure 2 the year lr-free survival for ck19-positive tumor .
 patient who be ck19 negative experience a year dmfs of versus in those who be ck19 positive 3 p wilcoxon test .
 in addition p53 overexpression show borderline significance for predict year lr rr ci p .
 however p53 be not a significant predictor of dmfs rr ci p or os rr ci p .
 full-size image 5k effect of ck19 status on year local recurrence lr rate for young woman with breast cancer treat with cs rt .
 the year lr-free survival be for ck19-positive tumor and for tumor p log-rank test .
 view within article .
 full-size image 5k ten-year distant metastasis free survival dmfs as a function of ck19 status for young woman with breast cancer treat with cs rt .
 the year dmfs be for ck19-positive tumor and for ck19-negative tumor p wilcoxon test .
 view within article .
 full-size image 5k ten-year overall survival os for young woman with breast cancer treat with cs rt .
 the year os be for ck19-positive tumor and for ck19-negative tumor p log-rank test .
 view within article .
 multivariate analysis .
 multivariate survival estimate be based on the cox proportional hazard model and assume no interaction between significant variable in the final model .
 the ck19 status tumor size nodal status and p53 status be enter into this multivariate model to determine relationship with year lr dmfs and os .
 on analysis as see in table 4 t2 stage lose prognostic significance with relation to dmfs rr ci p and overall survival rr ci p .
 nodal status demonstrate a relative risk of ci p for poor overall survival .
 in multivariate analysis ck19 negativity maintain statistical significance as a predictor of tumor that be much likely to recur locally rr ci p .
 it be note that the relative risk of poor overall survival with a negative ck19 phenotype increase from the univariate value of to the multivariate value of ci p and remain significant .
 thus patient with ck19-negative status be approximately two time little likely to survive in year when compare with patient with ck19-positive tumor .
 table .
 multivariate analysis of prognostic factor for local recurrence distant metastasis-free survival and overall survival .
 local recurrencedistant metastasis-free survivaloverall survival prognostic factorrr ci p valuerr ci p valuerr ci p value tumor nodal ck19 p53 full-size table .
 abbreviation ci confidence interval reference group rr risk ratio .
 statistically significant .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 in tissue microarray of 158 young woman with stage i ii breast cancer treat with breast-conserving surgery and radiotherapy we find that ck19 negativity significantly predict for poor lr dmfs and os in univariate and multivariate model .
 only t stage and nodal status be additional predictor of distant and overall survival yet be statistically inferior to ck19 status in the univariate and multivariate analysis .
 although tn phenotype be not associate with poor prognosis lr dmfs or os in this cohort it be correlated with ck19 negativity p and with p53 overexpression p .
 within the classification of breast carcinoma to a heterogeneous group of tumor correlation via the tn phenotype have simplified the identification of genetically unstable breast cancer 13 14 and 28 .
 although nielson et report the absence of er and lack of her2 overexpression in only of case 14 the tn phenotype be observe in of case in the current study .
 no difference be note in the tn versus the non-tn phenotype in the current study perhaps because the cohort consist of a homogenous group of only young woman with early stage disease .
 disparity in the frequency of the report blc may be cause by inherent biologic difference of the young patient cohort in study and be consistent with previously report finding 15 .
 with considerable genetic overlap between brca1 mutation and basal-like cancer blc there be expect to be a correlation between tn status as per ihc and brca1 status as per genetic testing 21 29 and .
 as expect all six of the patient carry brca1 mutation exhibit the tn phenotype .
 conversely no association be observe between tn phenotype and brca2 mutation consistent with the much heterogenous tumor associate with brca2 mutation 31 .
 turner et show in a matched-control study that breast tumor with p53 mutation be generally er negative and be associate with compromise distant disease-free survival 32 .
 in the current study tn phenotype be also associate with p53 overexpression as turner et describe previously .
 just as other study have observe 33 and 34 p53 overexpression do not correlate with poor overall or distant metastasis-free survival but do show borderline significance for local relapse in univariate analysis .
 however p53 status be not a significant independent prognostic factor as see in multivariate analysis in this study .
 although of patient be treat with systemic adjuvant chemotherapy the year actuarial overall survival rate for the entire cohort be .
 subset analysis of lr dmfs and os in patient of tn phenotype as a function of chemotherapy be not conduct because of the relatively small number in the propose analysis .
 in contrast to previous study 14 and 15 the prognostic utility of the tn phenotype be limited as it do not select those patient with much aggressive relapse rate either locally or distantly .
 thus the prognosis of this patient cohort may be refined with the addition of cytokeratin expression datum ck19 negativity as a significant predictor of aggressive disease .
 a study of 195 patient by potemski et 35 argue that the poor prognosis associate with basal-like phenotype be not influence by ck 5 6 or ck17 expression but rather by er absence .
 this study use three basal cytokeratin alone as marker of blc but it may be that the prognostic value be attain in study that combine tn status 19 and .
 this basal-like phenotype may have ill outcome that preclude the use of adjuvant hormonal or molecular therapy available for estrogen or her2-driven tumor .
 although basal or luminal cytokeratin status may aid in validate the basal-like phenotype the use of a single basal luminal marker alone to identify a subset of patient with poor outcome may fail to identify several basal-like cancer 14 .
 the current study may be support by staining obtain tumor specimen with other basal marker such as ck5 6 ck17 egfr her1 and c-kit to much accurately identify blc .
 although her1 expression be not specific to blc when combine with other marker ck 5 6 ck17 it have be show to contribute to the accurate identification of blc 28 and 36 .
 of course confirmation of the ihc-determined luminal versus basal-like cancer can be obtain via cdna microarray analysis use the intrinsic gene set as describe by sorlie et 13 .
 in this group of relatively early stage cancer treat with breast-conserving surgery and radiation we be able to validate the lack of luminal cytokeratin staining ck19 as an independent risk factor for poor prognosis with respect to lr dmfs and os .
 if this risk factor be validate in large study across a much heterogeneous cohort we consider the addition of great radiation boost dose after whole breast irradiation and or additional chemotherapy anthracycline-based agent as aggressive adjuvant modality for ck19-negative patient who desire breast conservation .
 because patient with ck19-negative disease be at a relatively high risk for local relapse ck19 status may also serve to stratify those patient who be poor candidate for protocol employ accelerate partial breast irradiation .
 recent datum also suggest that blc be much responsive to taxane and anthracycline-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy than non-blc subtype 37 .
 therefore not only can ck19 negativity be use to represent biologically distinct subtype of breast cancer it may also select those tumor that have distinct chemotherapy sensitivity .
 as a therapeutic anti-egfr monoclonal antibody treatment be a potential option for patient with her2 neu negative and egfr-overexpressed tumor which be characteristic of the blc .
 drug such as iressa zd1839 have be show in vivo and in vitro to be effective against breast tumor cell express egfr and potentiating the effect on her2-overexpressing cell line 38 .
 although the size of series be reasonable for a uniformly treat homogeneous population of young woman the number of event may be relatively small to define the role of this molecular factor in the clinical decision-making process for woman with early-onset breast cancer .
 nevertheless as a putative marker of blc ck19 negativity be an important risk factor in predict local distant and overall prognosis in young woman with early-stage disease .
 further evaluation of outcome in young woman with ck19-negative breast carcinoma treat with breast-conserving surgery and radiation be warrant in larger prospective clinical trial use much aggressive adjuvant radiotherapy and or chemotherapy with or without biologic modifier .
 in the last year institution operate on breast cancer patient use the lumpectomy technique .
 the bct-rate in this cohort be .
 patient undergo bct be very much satisfy with result except singular patient with central medio-cranial or caudal cancer location .
 several oncoplastic technique have already be describe to improve the cosmetic outcome after such as concomitant breast reduction and local parenchyma flap .
 moreover this technique have be show to increase the size of the resection free margin and improve the cosmetic we report here about the use of the hall findlay vertical breast reduction technique12 to improve cosmetic outcome in patient with central breast cancer or breast cancer locate in the upper inner quadrant call the no-man 's land .
 patient and method inclusion criterion and eligibility .
 patient with histologically verify stage i or ii breast cancer be eligible for combine bct with the hall findlay breast reduction .
 oncologic exclusion criterion for this modify bct be the same as for all bct no microscopic resection free margin resection after reasonable attempt multicentric carcinoma inflammatory breast cancer progressive disease after neoadjuvant chemotherapy contraindication for radiotherapy and the patient 's own preference .
 non-oncologic exclusion criterion be small breast size cup a or b .
 smoking diabetes or bmi above be no exclusion criterion .
 if necessary immediate or late contra-lateral breast reduction have be do to the patient 's own preference .
 we include only patient with centrally locate breast cancer within 2 cm distance from the nipple areola complex and breast cancer in the medio-cranial quadrant of the breast to be treat with lumpectomy and concomitant hall findlay breast .
 operative procedure for bct .
 patient with breast cancer first undergo lumpectomy with microscopically free margin resection at least 2 mm resection free margin .
 intraoperative freeze section be use to ensure cancer free resection margin .
 patient with positive margin at definitive histology be either re-resected or treat by mastectomy depending on the extent of residual cancer .
 one suction drain be place at the end of the operation to ensure drainage of wound seroma and haematoma .
 all patient have sentinel lymph node biopsy before lumpectomy use lymphazur blue dye apply subcutaneously .
 axillary level i and ii dissection be do in case of cancer involvement of the sentinel lymph node .
 operative procedure for centrally locate breast cancer .
 preoperative marking be do as show in 1a .
 the resection line for the central lumpectomy be draw circumferentially around the nipple .
 the total length of this incision should be about 14 cm semicircular line around the nipple in 1a right breast .
 a neo-nipple areola complex nac be plan on a medial dermoglandular pedicle reconstructed from the skin below the lumpectomy area as show in 1b .
 the base of the pedicle measure at least 6 cm and the neo-nac have a diameter of exactly 4 cm .
 full-size image 89k figure a preoperative marking for the medial pedicled dermoglandular flap for reconstruction of central lumpectomy b the lumpectomy incision 14 cm in length green line around the nipple which be close after lumpectomy around the neo-nipple areola complex .
 this neo-nipple areola complex reconstructed from the skin below the lumpectomy defect c should be 4 cm in diameter and be based on a medial pedicled dermoglandular flap with a base of at least 6 cm .
 the skin around the neo-nipple areola complex be deepithelialized to ensure blood d after lumpectomy the defect be fill by uprotating the neo-nipple areola e end result 4 week postoperative .
 view within article .
 after skin incision central lumpectomy have be perform .
 after freeze section reveal negative resection margin the tumor bed be mark with titan clip for radiotherapy guidance .
 thereafter the dermoglandular flap be design .
 the area around the neo-nac be deepithelialized and 2 cm of parenchyma underneath the neo-nac be leave for well blood supply .
 the base of this flap be between 6 and 8 cm long .
 the distance from the sternum to the base of the flap be cm .
 the neo-nipple be reconstructed by a local flap technique .
 the skin over the low outer and inner pole of the breast be undermine to allow rotation of the breast and closure of the inferior vertical scar which should have a length of 5 6 cm with a distance to the sternum of cm .
 the deepithelialized flap be rotate upward into the central lumpectomy defect to reshape the breast .
 the resected skin and tissue underneath the neo-nac help to reduce bottoming out and give the breast a round shape .
 parenchyma suture may be necessary to hold the breast in shape .
 the vertical scar under the neo-nac end 2 cm above the submammary fold .
 to achieve a distance between the submammary fold and the areola between 5 and 6 cm the low portion of the vertical scar be close with a purse string suture .
 this result in a small bulky skin mass which flatten during the first 2 week after operation due to skin undermine in this area .
 this technique avoid the use of an inverted t-scar and be first describe in 1999 for breast .
 operative procedure for medio-cranial breast cancer the no-man 's land in patient with medio-cranial breast cancer we use a different approach than for central breast cancer .
 the hall findlay technique be use with a lateral dermoglandular pedicle supply the patient own nac .
 skin incision follow preoperative marking green line in 2a .
 first the skin be undermine from the breast parenchyma except the area of the lateral dermoglandular pedicle to ensure blood supply .
 the medio-cranial breast quadrant be resected include the pectoral 's fascia and the patient 's own nac be supply by a lateral pedicle construct by deepithelialization of the surround skin .
 resection margin be histologically determine by frozen section and the tumor bed be mark with titan clip .
 the defect in the upper medial quadrant be fill with the parenchyma of the low inner pole by up rotation of the breast and the nac be rotate into new position .
 full-size image 89k figure a preoperative marking for hall findlay breast reduction and lumpectomy of the medio-cranial breast lump .
 in this case the patient undergo bilateral breast reduction due to breast hypertrophy and ptosis on both b d left breast from lateral side and the patient in supine b lumpectomy of the medio-cranial breast c medio-cranial defect and patient 's own nipple areola complex reduce to 4 cm diameter supply by a lateral pedicle after d closure of the defect after rotation of the breast e end result 4 week postoperative .
 view within article .
 follow-up .
 during the first year patient have a close follow-up every 3 month with clinical examination laboratory test include tumor marker and a ct-scan of the thorax and the abdomen every 6 month as well as 1 mammogram plus ultrasound per year .
 clinical evaluation consist of palpation and quality of life question such as arm mobility nipple sensation and breast sensation normal or not normal no scale .
 furthermore patient be ask to judge cosmetic result on a scale from 1 to 4 accord to the harris the cosmetic result be objectively document by the breast symmetry index bsi and give as difference compare several length parameter of one side with the .
 result operative procedure .
 from september to september 11 woman be operate with this technique due to central n 7 or medio-cranial n 4 breast cancer .
 five patient be operate by a single surgeon the other 6 patient be operate by 2 surgeon and .
 four woman have to undergo secondary mastectomy 2 week after the first operation .
 in this 4 woman 3 have multicentric intraductal breast cancer not seen in the mammogram or during intraoperative freeze section 1 woman have a hemangiosarcoma within a phylloides tumor .
 all other 7 woman have bct with adjuvant radiotherapy .
 postoperative morbidity .
 we have 1 haematoma formation which do not necessitate any second operation and be treat conservatively .
 there be 1 epidermal necrosis cm below the nipple areola complex which be treat conservatively with moisturize crme and necrosectomy at the outpatient ward .
 the mean hospitalization time be 6 day .
 demographic datum and follow-up .
 table 1 show the demographs .
 all but 2 have hormonal responsive breast cancer .
 after a median follow-up of 12 month there be no systemic or local recurrence or cancer relate death .
 table .
 demographic datum from patient with central or medio-cranial locate breast cancer .
 patientageptpnpmgerprher2neuneoadjuvantrr mm ablatio mm mm mm mm ablatio mm mm 842hemangiosarkomaablatio mm mm ablatio mm .
 full-size table .
 three patient undergo mastectomy after bct and hall findlay breast reduction due to multicentric disease and 1 due to hemangiosarcoma .
 two patient be eligible for neoadjuvant chemotherapy and yield a pathologic partial remission .
 all patient be free of disease at a median follow-up of 12 month .
 all patient except 3 chemotherapy herceptin have adjuvant anti-hormone therapy .
 view within article .
 quality of life .
 patient with medio-cranial breast cancer have normal sensibility over the nipple patient with a neo-nac have a different feeling not normal on the new nipple .
 the median bsi of all 7 patient treat with bct and hall findlay breast reduction be 22 1e and 2e illustrate the cosmetic result .
 all woman be satisfy harris scale 1 2 with symmetry and very satisfy harris scale 1 with general appearance .
 arm mobility be normal in all patient at follow-up .
 contra-lateral breast reduction have not be do in 2 patient because of excellent symmetry after the first operation medio-cranial breast cancer .
 the other 4 patient undergo contra-lateral breast reduction use the hall findlay technique after radiation therapy .
 one patient undergo immediate contra-lateral breast reduction .
 discussion general consideration .
 oncoplastic surgery define the combination of reconstructive technique with oncologic recently clough et present excellent cosmetic and oncologic result of woman after oncoplastic main advantage be the increase distance of the resection and the improve cosmetic not all patient with breast cancer may need oncoplastic eligible patient usually have an unfavourable relation in size between breast and tumor medium or large breast as well as tumor location lead to large visible scar and deep breast defect if bct be perform .
 in this respect patient with medio-cranial or centrally locate breast cancer fulfil this criterion .
 for medio-cranial tumor location the scar and the tissue defect may be easily visible by routine quadrantectomy technique .
 oncoplastic surgery may improve the cosmetic result by reconstruct the tissue defect with the medio-caudal breast parenchyma and place the scar around the nac .
 for central breast cancer the resection of the nac be necessary and cosmetic result be poor if standard bct be perform .
 thus much surgeon perform a mastectomy in patient with central breast cancer .
 oncoplastic surgery may omit mastectomy and reconstruct the nac immediately .
 study datum .
 we describe here the use of a breast reduction technique with a vertical scar and a medial or lateral pedicle for the nac to improve the cosmetic outcome in patient with central or medio-cranial locate breast cancer .
 in series of 11 patient we be able to achieve subjective and objective good cosmetic result in 7 after oncoplastic surgery .
 four have to undergo subsequent mastectomy .
 all 7 patient with lumpectomy have resection free margin of at least 5 mm .
 there be no local or distant recurrence during a median follow-up of 12 month .
 comparing hall findlay with other technique .
 several oncoplastic technique have be describe use breast reduction .
 for central breast cancer the grisotti flap be describe by galimberti et this technique show a perfect cosmetic however in some case especially in large breast the lateral end of the scar may exceed the submammary fold and may thus be visible .
 the same be true for breast reduction technique use an inverted t-scar with the disadvantage of a medial scar cross the submammary fold and show hypertrophy in some case .
 moreover much inverted t-scar technique necessitate a large dissection area result in increase morbidity and long operation the use of the vertical scar technique improve the cosmetic aspect in this regard as there be no scar along the medial or lateral side of the breast reduce scar visibility and extensive dissection may be avoid reduce morbidity especially after radiotherapy and increase the learn curve .
 other report about simple central resection of the tumor and immediate closure of the this technique with a short operation time however may only be possible in small size breast cancer .
 defects of simple central resection of tumor pt1c may result in little projection and a flat neo-nac after reconstruction .
 use the modify hall findlay technique as describe above the central lumpectomy defect be fill with breast parenchyma result in good projection and a natural breast shape .
 another advantage of the hall findlay technique be the low rate of skin and areola necrosis and the fast learn in first 7 case we observe 1 skin necrosis and no areola necrosis .
 there be no complication which necessitate re-operation .
 although the number be small this early result indicate a fast learn curve and a low morbidity rate .
 several author describe different oncoplastic technique accord to the tumor location depending on the site of the pedicle for the nac .
 for the hall findlay breast reduction technique different pedicle for nac blood supply be thus medial and lateral pedicle may be use for all patient with breast cancer independent of tumor location .
 this may be the much important advantage of this technique for oncoplastic surgeon .
 in this regard we use the hall findlay technique with a lateral pedicle for medio-cranial breast cancer .
 mean operation time be h and cosmetic result be good .
 one patient have concomitant contra-lateral breast reduction with the same technique .
 anatomic and clinical study demonstrate that the main nerve branch reach the nipple from the lateral and the medial side as well as through the cooper thus it may be important to avoid superior and inferior pedicle to preserve nipple sensation .
 nipple sensation be normal in all patient after hall findlay technique in series however the number be too low for statistic evaluation .
 other technique for medio-cranial breast cancer location such as the round block technique17 may result in reduce nipple sensation however this have to be prove as there be no datum in this respect .
 conclusive remark .
 in conclusion we suggest that the use of the hall findlay breast reduction technique to improve cosmetic outcome after bct be safe improve cosmetic result and be feasible for all breast cancer location .
 it may be superior to inverted t-scar technique due to the reduce dissection and the fast learn curve .
 for small centrally locate breast cancer the round block technique or the grisotti technique be excellent alternative .
 the incidence be increase in all in north and latin america asia and although the increase be much pronounce in industrialised country .
 however a reversal of the incidence trend have be observe in the united state since the early in woman over 45or over depending on the study whereas the incidence in young woman have remain in france the incidence of breast cancer have be increase continuously since the late by per year between 1978 and .
 health professional in france have express a concern about a possible increase in the frequency of breast cancer among young woman .
 there be few publication specifically address this age group .
 recently after similar concern have be express by clinician a study carry out in the canton of geneva observe an annual increase of ci in the incidence of breast cancer between and for woman age 25 this observation be not confirm by another study analyse datum from the vaud and neuchatel cancer registry in aim be to describe the trend in the incidence of breast cancer in young woman under in france use the datum from seven cancer registry 3277 case between 1983 and record by this seven registry and to compare it with that observe in old woman .
 material and method .
 the incidence of invasive breast cancer tumour record in seven french dpartements calvados doubs hrault isre bas-rhin somme and tarn for the period 1983 be analyse focusing on woman under who represent a total of 3277 case out of the case in patient age 15 and over at the time of diagnosis .
 annual percentage change over the period 1983 be estimate separately in four age group 15 39 young woman 49 woman just below the age of invitation to organised screening in france 74 woman invite to organised screening and 75 and over woman beyond the age of organised screening .
 the change be estimate use poisson regression11 on datum aggregate by annual age and year .
 in each age group the model include a linear time trend and a polynomial function of age .
 the linearity of the time trend be test by add a polynomial function of time .
 in order to provide a global visualisation of the trend in breast cancer incidence a graphical approach report the observe 5 year age-specific incidence by birth cohort be also present .
 result .
 the incidence rate increase in all age group but to different extent .
 the small increase be find in woman under and much specifically in woman under with an annual increase under .
 the great increase be observe in woman age 74 with an increase of almost per year .
 consequently the distribution of the number of case change during the period 1998 the 15 39 age group represent of the total number of new breast cancer case during the period 1983 1987 and during the period 1998 .
 the linearity of the time trend be test the change in incidence be log-linear only in woman age under for other age group the variation be much complex and not simply be summarised by an annual percentage change .
 in particular a decrease be observe in the last period in the over 75 age group which indeed only include woman age 75 79 .
 the increase also tend to flatten in the 49 age group .
 table .
 annual rate of change in percent with ci number of case and incidence rate by age group and period .
 age grouprate of change 1983 linearity of the trenda1983 19871988 19921993 19971998 incidence rate per of casesincidence ratebnumber of casesincidence ratebnumber of casesincidence ratebnumber of case 15 .
 full-size table .
 a result of the test of the polynomial function of time .
 b truncated world age standardised rate .
 view within article .
 full-size image incidence accord to age and cohort .
 view within article .
 1 present age-specific incidence rate observe accord to birth cohort .
 analysis by birth cohort be make difficult in the context of breast cancer due to major change in diagnostic practice .
 however the figure enable the observe change in incidence to be present in a detail manner .
 for a give age the risk of breast cancer increase with birth cohort with a visible perturbation induce by the development of screening in woman age 74 and probably those age 45 the increase level off among old woman .
 a flatten be notice in the 75 79 age group in the last period which might result from a former advance in diagnosis due to screening in the 74 age group .
 a flattening of the trend be also see in the 45 59 and 54 age group .
 discussion .
 between 1983 and breast cancer incidence increase in france with a considerable difference with regard to age .
 even though it be moderate there be an increase in the incidence of breast cancer in young woman under in study .
 moreover the trend be consistent over the whole period .
 organised or opportunistic screening become very common in france among woman age it be thus difficult when interpret time trend in breast cancer incidence in this age group to disentangle the combine effect of the development of screening associate with the improvement in diagnostic technique and those of many potential moderate risk in young woman early diagnosis be much uncommon as it be technically hard to carry out than in old however the trend in incidence in this young woman be compatible with a slow change in diagnostic practice which be difficult to distinguish from the effect of possible change in risk factor .
 a study of trend in stage at diagnosis or in survival in this age group would have help to interpret the observe increase in incidence .
 another explanation be a likely improvement in the completeness of cancer registration over the period .
 such a possibility be difficult to quantify but be probably low .
 french cancer registry datum be collect through multi-source network and code use european network cancer registry recommendation .
 this system prevent a large number of case be underreported .
 data be recently check through an extensive comparison with mortality without indicate special situation .
 few publication have describe the change trend in incidence of breast cancer in young woman probably because the incidence be relatively low in woman under in sweden a study analyse trend in breast cancer incidence from to 1984 among young woman and report an increase of and per year respectively in the age group 25 29 34 and 35 another study restrict to woman age 15 29 carry out in the united state during the year 1975 do not show a significant change in breast cancer incidence .
 tarone7 also report stability in the incidence of breast cancer in woman age 29 for the period 1975 in the usa but he observe a significant though small decrease between and for woman age 39 with an annual percentage change of under .
 on the contrary a significant increase be observe in the canton of geneva switzerland corresponding to an annual percentage change of ci between 1995 and in woman age 25 with a sharp acceleration between and annual increase ci .
 there be no proper explanation of this phenomenon although increase use of magnetic resonance imaging mri as a diagnostic tool may partly explain the increase .
 this result should be consider cautiously due to the small number of case 63 patient age 25 39 between and .
 this increase be not observe in two other area of .
 even though it be moderate there be a real increase in the incidence of breast cancer in young woman under in study .
 systematic screening for breast cancer among young woman be not recommended16 since in this age group the disease be rare diagnosis be difficult and the impact on mortality have not be establish .
 breast cancer diagnose in young patient be much aggressive than those detect in old and this cancer be responsible for a large proportion of lose potential year of a prevention policy targeted at know risk factor would thus be important .
 breast cancer risk factor in young woman be numerous and be not specific to this age group family history of breast cancer exposure to radiation particularly after hodgkin 's disease lack of physical activity reproductive factor late first pregnancy early onset of menstruation number of child oral contraceptive and alcohol .
 some be still poorly establish spontaneous or artificial termination of pregnancy smoking or need substantial research development environmental exposure .
 it be thus difficult to set up a prevention policy since there be no major risk factor for breast cancer in young woman and many of them such as early puberty be prevent .
 however a positive effect on breast cancer incidence may follow awareness campaign on the benefit of a healthy lifestyle which represent a major health issue far beyond the topic of breast cancer .
 the low risk associate with new oral contraceptives19 be also encourage .
 also some protect factor such as the benefit of or physical activity should be well publicised .
 conflict of interest .
 none declare .
 acknowledgement .
 this study receive funding from the ligue nationale contre le cancer national cancer research fund france comit de l'isre .
 increased level of upa and or pai-1 in primary tumor tissue of breast cancer patient correlate with tumor aggressiveness and poor clinical outcome .
 patient with high tumor tissue antigen content of upa and or pai-1 have a ill probability of disease-free and overall survival than patient with low level of both of the biomarker serve as prognostic marker .
 the clinical utility of upa and pai-1 have be prove on the high level of evidence loe-i .
 next to be clinically useful prognostic factor allow estimate of the course of disease in early breast cancer upa and pai-1 may also serve as predictive factor predict response to systemic therapy .
 node-negative primary breast cancer patient with high upa pai-1 level benefit significantly from adjuvant chemotherapy .
 the aim of the ongoing nnbc-3 trial be to determine the benefit of a sequential anthracycline docetaxel regimen in high-risk node-negative breast cancer patient compare to the current standard of anthracycline-based chemotherapy .
 at present upa and pai-1 provide the unique opportunity to allow validate and clinically relevant risk assessment of breast cancer patient over and above that provide by established risk factor .
 therefore in the evidence-based annually update ago guideline for breast cancer management the german working group for gynecological oncology ago have recommend both biomarker as risk-group-classification marker for routine clinical decision make in node-negative breast cancer next to establish clinical and histomorphological factor .
 the upa pai-1 system .
 the plasminogen activator system also know as the fibrinolytic system consist of the serine protease-type plasminogen activator upa urokinase-type plasminogen activator and tpa tissue-type plasminogen activator the high-affinity cell surface-associated receptor for upa u-par cd87 the plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 and 2 pai-1 pai-2 and the proenzyme plasminogen which be activate by upa or tpa into the proteolytically active serine protease plasmin .
 although upa and tpa be quite similar in structure and have common inhibitor and physiological substrate physiological role be distinct .
 this system be not only highly specific in catalyzing plasminogen into plasmin by tpa present in the blood stream in the presence of fibrin but be also effective in tissue when upa be attach to cellular receptor upar lead to activation of nearby plasminogen and subsequently to degradation of extracellular fibrin and other matrix protein by the newly generate plasmin .
 the plasminogen activator system be a complex system with multiple interaction among member and also with constituent of the extracellular matrix .
 traditionally the role of tpa be primarily in fibrinolysis and that of upa in cell migration especially in angiogenesis wound healing embryogenesis tumor cell dissemination and metastasis .
 the functional role of the plasminogen inhibitor be no long simply to inhibit plasminogen activator for pai-1 a role in promote cycle of attachment and detachment of the cell from the extracellular matrix that be independent of role as an enzymatic inhibitor of upa be reveal pai-2 have an unidentified role in the regulation of cell death where it can alter gene expression influence the rate of cell proliferation and differentiation and inhibit programme cell death apoptosis in a manner independent of urokinase inhibition and .
 well-balanced production and activation of upa pai-1 system component therefore can lead to change in degradation of the extracellular matrix and also affect cell adhesion angiogenesis cell proliferation and cell invasion not only under physiological condition but also under pathological condition such as cancer .
 expression of upa and pai-1 be often high in the epithelial and stromal cell of the tumor tissue than in the surround normal tissue point to the fact that in cancer regulation of upa-mediated extracellular proteolysis do involve a complex interplay between cancer cell nonmalignant stroma cell and component of the plasminogen activation system .
 full-size image 6k key role of the upa pai-1 system in tumor invasion and metastasis .
 view within article .
 clinical relevance of upa and pai-1 in breast cancer .
 elevated expression of upa and pai-1 at the mrna and protein level be demonstrate in basically every solid malignant tumor type examine such as cancer of the breast ovary esophagus stomach colorectum kidney lung or liver .
 increased level of upa and or pai-1 in primary tumor tissue correlate with tumor aggressiveness and poor patient outcome .
 among all of the article publish in the scientific literature on this subject much datum regard the prognostic and predictive value of upa pai-1 and impact on clinical decision make be available for breast cancer .
 this datum consistently show that high level of upa and or pai-1 determine in primary tumor tissue extract by protein analysis or mrna screening be associate with poor clinical outcome of the patient .
 prognostic impact of upa and pai-1 .
 in primary breast cancer the validation process demonstrate the clinical utility of upa and pai-1 be achieve by several mostly european research center .
 in 1988 duffy et be the first to show that the serine protease upa have a prognostic impact on breast cancer patient .
 they demonstrate that high enzymatic activity of upa in primary breast cancer tissue correlate with tumor size number of lymph node involve and with short disease-free survival when compare to patient with low upa activity .
 soon after this initial observation jnicke et demonstrate in 1989 that determination of the upa antigen content in primary tumor tissue by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay elisa also allow prediction of the course of disease in patient who do not receive any adjuvant treatment and .
 at the same time it also become apparent that not only the antigen level of upa but also that of pai-1 possess prognostic value in node-negative and node-positive breast cancer patient .
 a model be then develop which still i of clinical relevance patient with high tumor tissue antigen content of upa and or pai-1 have a ill probability of disease-free and overall survival than patient with low level of both of the biomarker .
 regarding risk-group assessment the combination of upa pai-1 both low v either or both high be find to be superior to either factor take alone .
 furthermore based on multivariate analysis upa and pai-1 be statistically independent of establish prognostic factor such as tumor size tumor grade steroid hormone receptor status or menopausal status .
 as a prognostic factor upa pai-1 be superior to the oncoprotein her2 and thus render statistically independent clinically important information and .
 other international research group report a similar prognostic impact of upa and pai-1 in breast cancer .
 moreover the publish interaction between pai-1 and vascular endothelial growth factor vegf warrant far investigation into the relationship between biomarker of angiogenesis and those of the protease cascade and .
 in order to achieve the high level of evidence loe-i for clinical utility of a cancer-associated biomarker accord to the asco tumor marker utility grade system tmugs clinical significance of a prognostic or predictive cancer biomarker must be evaluate either by a prospective randomized clinical trial or a large meta-analysis .
 regarding this guideline for upa pai-1 both the criterion be fulfil by 1 a prospective randomized multicenter breast cancer therapy trial chemo in which a total of 689 patient be enrolled in 14 study center in germany and slovenia between 1993 and 1998 2 a large meta-analysis conduct by the eortc receptor and biomarker group comprise 8377 breast cancer patient from 18 independent dataset eortc european organisation for research and treatment of cancer a trans-european cancer foundation based in brussels belgium .
 in the chemo trial upa and pai-1 antigen content be determine in primary tumor tissue extract by commercially available elisa kit obtain from american diagnostica stamford ct usa .
 patient with low upa and pai-1 content be allocate to the observation arm patient with high upa and or pai-1 content be randomized to either adjuvant chemotherapy with six cycle of cmf cyclophosphamide 5-fluorouracil or observation only .
 by compare the two observation arm low v high upa pai-1 the prognostic impact of upa pai-1 be evaluate in a prospective fashion .
 the first interim analysis of the chemo trial after a median follow-up time of 32 month demonstrate a statistically independent prognostic impact of upa pai-1 with regard to disease-free survival .
 also previously optimized cut-off value for upa and pai-1 to discriminate between low and high upa pai-1 be confirm .
 a second analysis after a median follow-up time of month comprise 647 patient consolidate the prognostic impact of upa pai-1 regard disease-free and overall survival .
 this analysis reveal that node-negative breast cancer patient present with low upa pai-1 in primary tumor tissue have a low-risk profile with a 5 year overall survival rate of even in the absence of any adjuvant systemic therapy .
 full-size image 8k study design of the chemo trial .
 view within article .
 predictive impact of upa and pai-1 .
 next to be clinically useful prognostic factor allow estimate of the course of disease in early breast cancer upa and pai-1 may also serve as predictive factor predict response to systemic therapy .
 as yet only few study have be publish look at the predictive impact of upa and pai-1 regard response or failure to chemotherapy or endocrine therapy in breast cancer .
 for instance in the palliative setting it be show that metastasized breast cancer patient with high level of upa and pai-1 in primary tumor tissue respond poorly to palliative endocrine tamoxifen therapy compare to patient with low level of both factor and .
 in the neoadjuvant setting pierga et look at the correlation between pai-1 level determine in drill biopsy tumor tissue sample take before anthracycline-containing neoadjuvant chemotherapy and in tumor biopsy take after chemotherapy at the time of primary surgery in a small collective of 69 patient .
 no association be find between initial pai-1 level and clinical response to primary chemotherapy .
 in early breast cancer the improvement in clinical risk assessment and therapy benefit prediction gain by combine upa and pai-1 be evaluate by .
 for this upa and pai-1 level be prospectively measure by elisa in tumor tissue extract of 761 patient with primary breast cancer .
 the criterion either alone or by both factor have identify with high sensitivity the patient at high risk for disease recurrence while keep much than half of the patient in the low-risk group .
 much interestingly a significant interaction between upa pai-1 and adjuvant systemic therapy be demonstrate suggest a benefit from adjuvant therapy in high-risk breast cancer patient as define by upa pai-1 .
 harbeck et in a subsequent study of 3424 primary breast cancer patient from breast cancer center in munich germany and rotterdam the netherlands evaluate the predictive impact of upa pai-1 regard response to adjuvant chemo- and endocrine therapy .
 it be show that patient with high upa pai-1 level have an enhance benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy compare to those with low level of the biomarker .
 no corresponding interaction between endocrine therapy and low or high upa pai-1 level be observe .
 the upa pai-1-dependent benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy be subsequently validate in the pool analysis collective of the eortc receptor and biomarker group .
 in the prospective multicenter chemo trial node-negative primary breast cancer patient with high upa pai-1 level be either randomized to cmf-based chemotherapy or to observation only thereby look at the clinical value of a therapeutic intervention in high upa pai-1 patient .
 already after a short follow-up period of 32 month a considerable and statistically significant benefit from adjuvant cmf chemotherapy be also observe in high upa pai-1 node-negative breast cancer patient which be still valid after a long median follow-up time of month and .
 this prospective randomized multicenter clinical trial therefore not only validate the prognostic value of upa pai-1 in node-negative breast cancer patient but also demonstrate predictive impact at the high level of evidence loe-1 .
 method for determination of upa and pai-1 .
 in the majority of publish retrospective study quantification of upa and pai-1 antigen level in tumor tissue extract be perform use the commercially available elisa kit .
 this assay be also use for the prospective chemo clinical trial where routine tissue analysis for clinical decision make within the trial be conduct in six different laboratory .
 consequently for routine use quantitative determination of upa and pai-1 antigen content by elisa use this assay be recommend employ protein extract from fresh-frozen primary breast cancer tissue sample .
 this assay can also be apply to assess protein extract obtain from small breast cancer biopsy such as core biopsy specimen or cryostat section .
 the upa and pai-1 elisa test have be standardized and quality assure by the receptor and biomarker group and the pathobiology group of the eortc .
 at present pcr-based mrna analysis of upa and or pai-1 messenger expression have not reach the level of clinical routine mainly due to the lack of validate multicenter clinical study .
 still such study should be encourage as recent publication although on a few patient collective only indicate feasibility of such a test system for breast cancer tissue upa pai-1 analysis which would be independent of protein expression or internalization of upa pai-1 complex by the cell .
 likewise no validate multicenter clinically relevant breast cancer immunohistochemistry study use upa and or pai-1 direct antibody and routinely process paraffin-embedded formalin-fixed breast cancer specimen have be conduct so far .
 consequently harmonization of various detection and quantification system for upa and pai-1 at the gene and protein level be one of the current task of the eortc pathobiology group .
 in this context we would like to mention that in addition to mrna and protein expression epigenetic modification of cpg island within the promoter region of the upa gene be also an indicator of tumor aggressiveness still prospective breast cancer trial observe upa dna-methylation as a stratification factor have not yet be conduct and .
 clinical nnbc-3 trial .
 as a consequence of the result of the chemo breast cancer trial a number of clinical question be answer but other still remain open regard prognosis and therapy response prediction of breast cancer patient .
 breast cancer patient with low level of upa and pai-1 comprise about half of the node-negative breast cancer patient have a rather low risk of disease recurrence and therefore be not subject to adjuvant systemic chemotherapy .
 in contrast patient with high upa and or pai-1 level who be at risk to develop metastasis do benefit from adjuvant systemic therapy .
 a second prospective multicenter phase iii therapy trial the nnbc-3 trial node negative breast cancer 3 trial be now open for patient recruitment principal investigator christoph thomssen leiter der klinischen prfung accord to german law university of halle and nadia harbeck technical university of munich germany .
 the two main aim of this trial be 1 to compare risk assessment and clinical outcome based on tumor biological factor upa pai-1 to that based on establish clinical and histomorphological factor and 2 to optimize the adjuvant chemotherapy regimen for high-risk node-negative breast cancer patient .
 the nnbc-3 trial be an intergroup trial conduct in cooperation with the ago german arbeitsgemeinschaft gynkologische onkologie the eortc pathobiology group and the german breast group .
 by end of october recruitment be at patient who come from 97 clinical center in germany and france .
 node-negative primary breast cancer patient age 18 year with a tumor size between and 5 cm be eligible for the trial .
 recruitment center be allow to select risk assessment criterion either use establish clinical and histomorphological criterion or use determination of upa pai-1 in primary tumor tissue extract .
 risk assessment by established factor take the recommendation of the st .
 gallen consensus meeting into account use this criterion a node-negative breast cancer patient fulfil any of the follow criterion be regard as be at high risk for disease recurrence 1 age 35 year peritumoral vascular invasion tumor grade 3 steroid hormone receptor pgr or pgr er or her2-positive or 2 tumor grade g2 and tumor size 2 cm .
 full-size image 24k a nnbc-3 trial clinical and histomorphological risk b nnbc-3 trial tumor biological risk assessment .
 view within article .
 the second option for risk assessment be based on the presence of the tumor biological factor upa and pai-1 in the primary tumor tissue .
 however for risk assessment node-negative primary breast cancer patient be first classify accord to tumor grade .
 patient with g1 tumor be consider at low risk and allocate to the observation arm all g3 tumor patient be consider at high risk and therefore be randomized in the chemotherapy arm .
 for patient with g2 tumor far risk stratification accord to upa pai-1 be appropriate .
 patient with 35 year of age or above and low upa pai-1 be consider at low risk and thus allocate to the observation arm .
 patient with 35 year of age or above and high upa and or pai-1 or those young than 35 year of age be randomized to one of the two chemotherapy regimen .
 in the nnbc-3 trial all patient define as be at high risk for disease recurrence be randomized to either six cycle of 5-fluorouracil cyclophosphamide every three week or to three cycle of follow by three cycle of docetaxel every three week .
 node-negative patient define as be at low risk for disease recurrence be allocate to the observation arm and receive endocrine therapy accord to the ago guideline if applicable .
 the overall aim of the trial be to compare both risk stratification methodsthe clinical and histomorphological and the tumor biological oneand to determine the benefit of a sequential anthracycline docetaxel regimen in high-risk node-negative breast cancer patient .
 we would like to mention that another clinical therapy trial the adebar trial adjuvant docetaxel versus epirubicin-based regimen trial have already be complete in which high-risk node-positive breast cancer patient with much than three involve axillary lymph node be enrolled .
 patient recruit in 198 center be randomized to either six cycle of or to six cycle of a three-weekly sequential anthracycline docetaxel regimen .
 testing for upa and pai-1 be an optional translational research subprotocol intend to evaluate the benefit of add taxane to anthracycline-based chemotherapy in the two risk group accord to the upa pai-1 status .
 the adebar trial be close for patient recruitment in spring clinical result and thus also result of the upa pai-1 subprotocol be still pending .
 current use of upa pai-1 in clinical decision making .
 tumor biological factor upa and pai-1 be validate at the high level of evidence regard prognostic and predictive impact in primary breast cancer .
 therefore the german working group for gynecological oncology ago recommend both biomarker for risk-group-classification and routine clinical decision make in node-negative breast cancer next to the establish clinical and histomorphological factor .
 this recommendation be first issue in in the annually update evidence-based ago guideline .
 full-size image 13k ago breast cancer treatment guidelines prognostic a and predictive b factor for clinical routine use .
 view within article .
 still although substantial and consistent datum have be publish and prospective clinical therapy trial evidence validate this prognostic factor and demonstrate the benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy in high upa and or pai-1 node-negative breast cancer patient be available this tumor biological marker have until recently not be integrate in international guideline such as the st .
 gallen conference consensus .
 while the clinical validity be not be dispute one reason for the limited worldwide acceptance be certainly the necessity of fresh-frozen tumor tissue for preparation of tumor tissue extract and elisa testing which be not available as a standard of care in many country of the world include usa .
 this be rather surprising since for many year fresh-frozen breast cancer tissue be set aside for steroid hormone receptor testing by the dcc or eia test .
 moreover mrna testing employ cdna-microarray technology also require fresh breast cancer tissue for analysis and .
 based on the level i evidence the much recent asco guideline have include upa and pai-1 as marker which be recommend for use in practice .
 we want to stress again that to date upa and pai-1 be the only breast cancer-associated biomarker clinical utility be demonstrate by a prospective clinical trial chemo with a second confirmatory trial nnbc-3 on way .
 regarding prospective gene signature validation in breast cancer patient the first clinical therapy trial have just be launch such as tailorx trial assigning individualized options for treatment rx use the 16 gene disease recurrence score or mindact microarray in node-negative disease may avoid chemo therapy use a gene signature for risk assessment .
 thus at present only upa and pai-1 provide the unique opportunity to allow validate and clinically relevant risk assessment in breast cancer patient over and above that provide by the traditional and establish risk factor .
 timely diagnosis and intervention be the key to successful therapy whereby drug treatment mostly based on anthracycline and taxane commonly precede or follow surgery to reduce tumor bulk or to prevent metastatic spread and growth respectively .
 however once breast cancer become metastatic response to this agent be often markedly reduce possibly as a consequence of widespread use as neo adjuvant therapy .
 novel treatment regimen incorporating biotherapeutic agent such as trastuzumab or the antimetabolites gemcitabine and capecitabine have show some potential to overcome this problem restore tumor cell sensitivity to anthracycline and or taxane by modulation of tumor-specific signaling pathway may provide a different and complementary approach to the clinical management of the disease .
 the present study focuses on the role play by signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 stat3 in the response of a highly metastatic human breast adenocarcinoma cell line mda-mb-231 to doxorubicin dox the prototypic drug of the anthracycline family .
 stat3 belong to a family of latent cytoplasmic transcription factor that be activate by phosphorylation of a critical tyrosine residue dimerization and nuclear translocation upon binding of cytokine and growth factor to membrane receptor .
 a number of experimental finding support the hypothesis of a role for stat3 in oncogenesis and tumor progression based on ability to transactivate a number of gene product be involve in cell proliferation and survival invasion metastasis and angiogenesis for recent review see .
 constitutive activation of stat3 be a frequent occurrence in breast tumor and have be demonstrate in a number of breast cancer cell line possibly as a consequence of overexpression or constitutive activation of upstream receptor egfr her2 or non-receptor src tyrosine kinase .
 thus stat3 have emerge as an important target for cancer therapy .
 high level of stat3 activity have also be find to predict intrinsic drug resistance to chemotherapy possibly through upregulation of such antiapoptotic factor as bcl-xl bcl-2 mcl-1 and survivin and stat3 inhibition have be evaluate as a possible strategy to increase tumor cell response to cytotoxic agent .
 however conflict result have be report suggest that the outcome may be highly dependent on the tumor type and drug s consider .
 the result of the present study confirm finding by other author indicate that metastatic breast cancer cell exhibit increase baseline level of stat3 activity that be far enhance follow dox treatment .
 stat3 inhibition in mda-mb-231 cell be address by three different approach inhibition of upstream janus kinase jak the major tyrosine kinase involve in stat3 activation transfection with a dominant-negative form of stat3 stat3f and treatment with satraplatin a tetravalent platinum derivative that similar to other compound in this class inhibit stat3 activity .
 all three approach increase the proapoptotic effect of dox albeit to different extent and the latter two also interfere with antiapoptotic protein expression suggest that inhibitor of stat3 activity might prove valuable addition to the therapeutic protocol currently use in the clinical management of metastatic breast cancer .
 material and .
 reagent .
 standard chemical and cell culture reagent be purchase from sigma aldrich milan italy unless otherwise indicate be purchase from alexis corporation lausen switzerland .
 doxorubicin dox be kindly provide by suarato nerviano medical science nerviano italy .
 satraplatin1 be synthesize in several step via the homologous pt ii derivative jm-118 accord to publish procedure .
 the follow antibody be use anti-stat3 rabbit polyclonal santa cruz biotechnology santa cruz usa anti-pstat3 rabbit polyclonal cell signaling technology danvers ma usa anti-survivin rabbit polyclonal abcam cambridge uk anti-bcl-xl rabbit polyclonal medical biological laboratory nagoya japan .
 cell line and treatment .
 the human breast adenocarcinoma cell line mcf-7 estrogen receptor-positive p53-proficient non-metastatic and mda-mb-231 estrogen receptor-negative metastatic and harboring a mutant form of p53 as well as overexpression of the egf receptor be obtain from atcc rockville md usa and maintain in dmem supplement with heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum fbs mascia brunelli milan italy at 37 c in an atmosphere of co2 .
 preparation of cell lysate immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting .
 intracellular level of total and stat3 be assess by immunoprecipitation and western blot under baseline condition and follow different treatment .
 cell be lysed in a buffer contain nacl mm naf mm edta 1 mm egta 6 mm sodium pyrophosphate 15 mm in tris hcl mm ph pmsf mm na3vo4 mm phenylarsine oxide 1 mm and protease inhibitor cocktail sigma .
 protein concentration be determine by the bicinchoninic acid assay pierce rockford il usa and g of protein be incubate overnight at 4 c with 2 g of anti-stat3 rabbit polyclonal antibody .
 the follow morning the immune complex be immunoprecipitated follow 2 h incubation at 4 c with protein g-sepharose .
 immunoprecipitates be then dissolve in laemmli sample buffer and separate by sds page transfer onto immobilon p membrane millipore bedford ma usa and western blot analysis be perform by standard technique use rabbit polyclonal anti-p stat3 antibody .
 total stat3 protein level be obtain incubate the same membrane with an anti-stat3 rabbit polyclonal antibody .
 intracellular level of survivin and bcl-xl be assess by western blot of total cell lysate .
 fifty micrograms of protein be separate and transfer as previously describe and pvdf membrane be incubate overnight at 4 c with anti-survivin or anti-bcl-xl rabbit polyclonal antibody .
 to verify equal protein loading blot be reprobed with an anti--tubulin mouse monoclonal antibody sigma aldrich .
 however this not be do for western blot perform on immunoprecipitates therefore this experiment be repeat 3 4 time in order to assess the reliability and reproducibility of the result obtain .
 immunoreactive band be visualize use a peroxidase-conjugated anti-rabbit secondary antibody and the supersignal west pico chemiluminescent substrate system pierce biotechnology rockford il usa accord to the manufacturer 's instruction .
 cytotoxicity assay .
 the mtt assay be use to assess the antiproliferative effect of dox .
 briefly cell 2 ml be seed onto 96 well plate allow to grow for 24 h and subsequently expose to dox m .
 after 72 h l of mtt 3- bromide 2 mg ml in pbs be add to each well at 37 c for 3 h and the reduction of mtt by viable cell be measure at nm use a universal microplate reader biotek instruments winooski vt usa .
 for combination treatment with dox and satraplatin mda-mb-231 cell be treat simultaneously for 72 h with different dox concentration m and a fix satraplatin concentration or 1 m approximately corresponding to the ic25 value the concentration yield cell survival as assess in preliminary experiment on mda-mb-231 cell .
 at the end of the experimental period cell be process for mtt assay as describe above .
 flow cytometric analysis of apoptotic cell .
 following the different treatment cell be harvest by trypsinization wash in phosphate-buffered saline pbs and fix in ice-cold ethanol for min at room temperature .
 after a far wash in pbs dna be stain with g ml propidium iodide in pbs in the presence of rnase a u ml at room temperature for min .
 cell sample cell be analyzed with a facscalibur flow cytometer becton dickinson franklin lakes nj usa equip with a 15 mw 488 nm and air-cooled argon ion laser and datum be process use cellquest software becton dickinson .
 fluorescent emission be collect through a 575 nm band-pass filter .
 at least event be analyzed for each sample .
 the percentage of apoptotic cell in each sample be determine based on the sub-g1 peak detect in monoparametric histograms .
 vector and transfection .
 mda-mb-231 cell be transiently transfected with an expression plasmid pef-ha-stat3f contain a full-length cdna encode hemagglutinin peptide ha -tagged stat3f a dominant-negative form of stat3 in which be replace by phenylalanine subcloned into a pef-bos expression vector originally provide by nagata university of osaka medical school control cell be mock-transfected with the pef-bos pef-ha-stat3f be a generous gift from hirano of molecular oncology university of osaka medical school .
 log-phase grow cell be harvest and transfected with g of dna use an easyjet electroporator system equibio ashford uk under condition optimized accord to the manufacturer 's instruction v f .
 all experiment be perform start 24 h after transfection t .
 the efficiency and persistence of transfection be check by immunoprecipitation and western blot analysis of cell lysate as describe above at t and subsequently at 24 48 and 72 h thereafter .
 statistical analysis .
 statistical analysis of the datum be perform use graphpad prism software graphpad san diego usa .
 value the concentration yield cell survival be estimate from in vitro dose response curve use non-linear regression analysis and difference be analyzed by student 's t test for independent sample or by one-way analysis of variance and tukey 's post-test for multiple comparison when much than two experimental group be involve in the analysis .
 drug interaction be analyzed use the calcusyn software biosoft cambridge uk develop by chou .
 .
 effect of dox on mcf-7 and mda-mb-231 cell .
 1a show the value estimate from dose response curve obtain follow 72 h exposure to dox in mcf-7 and mda-mb-231 as well as the percentage of apoptotic cell induce in the two cell line by 24 h exposure to m dox .
 this datum indicate that mda-mb-231 cell be slightly but significantly much resistant to dox than mcf-7 which add to the other characteristic of mda-mb-231 cell estrogen-independence metastatic trait p53 mutation egf receptor overexpression in define highly aggressive phenotype .
 full-size image 14k effect of dox on cell survival apoptosis and stat3 phosphorylation in mcf-7 and mda-mb-231 a value be estimate from dose response curve obtain follow 72 h exposure to different dox concentration the percentage of apoptotic cell be determine follow 24 h exposure to m dox mean se of 3 5 independent experiment .
 air mda-mb-231 mcf-7 bt c apoptosis in treat untreated cell p mcf-7 b western blot of cell extract immunoprecipitated obtain with an anti-stat3 antibody follow 24 h exposure to m dox .
 view within article .
 1b show the protein level of stat3 and pstat3 in mda-mb-231 and mcf-7 cell expose to m dox for 24 h .
 untreated mda-mb-231 cell exhibit high baseline level of both form of stat3 than untreated mcf-7 cell confirm the presence of constitutive stat3 activation .
 exposure to dox do not modify stat3 level in either cell line whereas pstat3 be increase in both but much notably in mda-mb-231 cell indicate that drug treatment far enhance stat3 activation .
 effect of treatment with .
 2a show the effect of 24 h exposure to m on the expression and activation of stat3 indicate that even at this non-cytotoxic concentration the tyrphostin partially inhibit stat3 phosphorylation and activation while leave total stat3 protein level 2b show that simultaneous exposure to m and m dox induce a significant albeit modest increase in the proapoptotic effect observe with the same concentration of dox alone .
 full-size image 14k a effect of m for 24 h on stat3 and pstat3 level in mda-mb-231 b effect of m for 24 h on the proapoptotic action of dox m for 24 h .
 mean se of 4 independent p control dox .
 view within article .
 effect of transfection with the pef-ha-stat3f vector .
 3a show stat3 and pstat3 level in mda-mb-231 cell follow transfection of the pef-ha-stat3f vector encode a negative dominant form of stat3 mda231stat3f or with the empty vector pef-bos mda231pef-bos protein extract from transfected cell be prepare start 24 h after transfection t and every 24 h thereafter .
 it can be observe that total stat3 protein level be unmodified in both cell line at all time point pstat3 level be also unmodified in mda231pef-bos cell whereas they decrease in mda231stat3f at t 24 h and become undetectable at t 48 and 72 h .
 stat1 and pstat1 level be also assess in both transfected cell line but be unaltered datum not show .
 3b and c indicate that mda231stat3f cell be much sensitive to the cytotoxic effect of dox than mock-transfected cell both in term of percentage of apoptotic cell at different drug exposure time and of value after 72 h exposure to dox .
 incidentally the response of mda231pef-bos cell to dox be similar to that exhibit by the parental non-transfected cell line and nm respectively finally 3d show that bcl-xl and survivin protein level decrease concomitantly with pstat3 level in mda231stat3f cell but be unmodified in mda231pef-bos cell .
 full-size image 34k a stat3 and pstat3 level in mda231stat3f and mda231pef-bos mock-transfected cell at different time follow transfection baseline determination t be perform 24 h after b induction of apoptosis by dox m in mda231stat3f and mda231pef-bos cell .
 mean se of 3 independent experiment datum be normalize for the percent of apoptotic cell observe in untreated sample at the same time c value obtain in mda231stat3f and mda231pef-bos cell .
 mean se of 3 independent d bcl-xl and survivin protein level in mda231stat3f and mda231pef-bos p mda231pef-bos .
 view within article .
 effect of treatment with satraplatin .
 satraplatin be find to decrease mda-mb-231 cell proliferation at 72 h with an estimate value of in combination with dox satraplatin be use at and 1 m the latter concentration approximately correspond to the ic25 value and have be show to significantly reduce pstat3 level after 72 h exposure in mda-mb-231 cell .
 satraplatin significantly enhance the antiproliferative effect of dox at 72 h as indicate by the dramatic decrease in value .
 the analysis of the interaction between dox and satraplatin perform accord to the model develop by chou and talalay yield ci value of and of for dox combine with and 1 m satraplatin respectively indicate strong synergy between the two agent .
 this result be confirm by datum on the induction of apoptosis show that the dox satraplatin combination yield significantly high percentage of apoptotic cell than either agent alone .
 accordingly treatment with satraplatin 1 m for 72 h markedly reduce bcl-xl protein level however no reduction be observe in survivin expression follow satraplatin treatment .
 full-size image 28k effect of satraplatin stp on stat3 pstat3 a on dox at 72 h b on the percentage of apoptotic cell observe follow 24 h exposure to m dox c and on bcl-xl and survivin level d .
 unless otherwise indicate a concentration of 1 m satraplatin be use .
 mean se of 3 independent experiment p dox alone .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 an increase body of evidence from cell line mouse model and human tissue implicate constitutive stat3 activation in breast cancer oncogenesis review in 25 .
 the result of preliminary experiment compare pstat3 level and antiproliferative effect of dox on the non-metastatic estrogen-dependent mcf-7 and the metastatic estrogen-independent mda-mb-231 cell indicate that stat3 activation be also associate to reduce response to tumor drug treatment .
 interestingly 24 h exposure to dox induce a far mark enhancement in pstat3 over baseline level in mda-mb-231 cell whereas no change be observe in mcf-7 cell suggest that stat3 activation may represent an early defense mechanism lead to impair response to the cytotoxic treatment .
 it may be argue that the observe difference in and percent of apoptotic cell between the two cell line although significant be trifling when compare to experimentally induce acquire resistance level .
 however it be increasingly recognize that even apparently trifling reduction in drug effectiveness lead to therapeutic failure when encounter in the clinic .
 datum be in agreement with those report by real et on mda-mb-435 parental non-metastatic breast cancer cell and a metastatic subline derived thereof show activation of the egfr-stat3 pathway and reduce response to paclitaxel and dox in the metastatic cell line .
 a number of antiapoptotic gene have be identify as direct or indirect target for the transcriptional activity of stat3 much notably those encode antiapoptotic bcl-2 family member mcl-1 bcl-xl and bcl-2 and survivin .
 thus stat3 activation contribute to breast cancer cell resistance and be a potential target for chemosensitizing strategy .
 to verify this hypothesis we focused on different intervention aim at block stat3 activation in mda-mb-231 cell in which constitutive stat3 activation be also much likely drive by egfr overexpression .
 first approach be based on inhibition of janus kinase probably the major upstream activator of stat protein use the tyrphostin derivative this compound have be show to reduce pstat3 level and to induce apoptosis in a variety of cancer cell line as well as to sensitize lymphoma and multiple myeloma cell to a host of cytotoxic agent .
 to assess the sensitize effect of independent of direct cytotoxic effect we decide to use a concentration m that per se do not induce apoptosis in mda-mb-231 cell but be still able to partially abrogate stat3 phosphorylation .
 under this condition a very modest potentiation of the proapototic effect of dox be observe indicate that partial inhibition of stat3 activation be not sufficient to jeopardize antiapoptotic function .
 alternatively jak simultaneously phosphorylate other substrate besides stat3 which in turn might affect the survival of breast cancer cell with inhibit jak function .
 much notably jak2 the main target for action be involve in stat1 as well as in stat3 phosphorylation .
 since stat1 be generally report to play a proapoptotic role for a review see 29 concomitant inhibition mask the effect induce by stat3 inhibition .
 to achieve a much complete abrogation of stat3 phosphorylation without interfere with stat1 function we then transfected mda-mb-231 cell with a plasmid construct encode a dominant-negative form of stat3 .
 transfected cell do indeed exhibit a decrease in pstat3 level which become undetectable at 48 h post-transfection this be accompany by a concurrent decrease in bcl-xl and survivin protein level .
 as expect from the reduction in antiapoptotic protein expression transfected cell be also sensitize to the cytotoxic effect of dox as indicate by the significant decrease in follow 72 h exposure to dox at 96 h post-transfection and by a significant increase in the percentage of apoptotic cell death induce by dox after 24 h exposure at 48 h post transfection as compare to mock-transfected cell .
 thus interfere with constitutive and drug-induced activation of stat3 do seem to be a viable approach to breast cancer cell sensitization to dox especially as stat3 function have be show to be dispensable in many normal cell and tissue thereby reduce the risk of severe side toxicity .
 this approach take advantage of the several small molecule inhibitor that have be identify cucurbitacin q resveratrol and flavopiridol or specifically design to target stat3 .
 interestingly turkson et have recently report on novel platinum compound which be able to interfere with stat3 transcriptional activity .
 along this line we have decide to test the stat3-inhibiting capability and chemosensitizing property of satraplatin an orally active platinum iv drug that be already well advance in clinical trial phase iii for activity on hormone-refractory prostate cancer .
 in study satraplatin be use at a concentration that only induce inhibition of cell growth in mda-mb-231 cell follow 72 h exposure .
 at this concentration we observe a mark inhibition of stat3 phosphorylation as well as of bcl-xl protein level whereas survivin level be not modify by the treatment .
 this last observation be rather hard to explain in view of the inhibition of survivin expression observe in mda-mb-231 cell transfected with the dominant-negative form of stat3 .
 one possible explanation be that as elegantly demonstrate by frank and coworkers neither the bcl-xl nor the survivin gene be a direct target of stat3 transcriptional activity thus transcription of this two gene have to involve other transcription factor that may have different requirement for stat3 activation to be turn on it must be emphasize that satraplatin in contrast to transfection with stat3f do not completely abolish stat3 phosphorylation .
 much interestingly and in spite of unaltered survivin level satraplatin induce a dramatic increase in dox cytotoxicity in mda-mb-231 cell as evidence by both value and percentage of apoptotic cell indicate that the two drug be highly synergistic .
 such very impressive effect and the role play by stat3 be currently under investigation in laboratory .
 datum indicate that satraplatin while owing much of antitumor activity in vivo to platinum ii metabolite jm-118 rapidly form upon oral administration and exhibit a modest intrinsic cytotoxic activity in vitro may exert an as yet undescribed chemosensitizing effect on breast cancer cell thus the in vivo effect of the parenteral administration of this drug on breast tumor with constitutively active stat3 may well be worthy of far investigation .
 to conclude result confirm a role for stat3 in the intrinsic resistance to dox exhibit by metastatic breast cancer cell and indicate this transcription factor as a valid target for strategy aim at sensitize stat3-overexpressing tumor to the effect of dox-based chemotherapy in addition they suggest a possible novel therapeutic application for satraplatin .
 acknowledgement .
 financial support italian ministry of university and research prin .
 native american use black cohosh as an anti-inflammatory agent .
 related asian cimicifuga species have be use in china and japan as antipyretic and analgesic agent as well as to treat infectious disease .
 in recent year black cohosh have be use in the united state and europe to relieve symptom associate with female medical condition particularly menopause .
 the root and rhizome of the plant contain 2 major class of compound triterpene glycoside and phenylpropanoids .
 we and other have show that extract enrich in triterpene glycoside and specific triterpene glycoside isolate from black cohosh possess anticancer activity nesselhut et 1993 dixon-shanies and shaikh 1999 watanabe et bodinet and freudenstein einbond et hostanska et and hostanska et but the precise mechanism and nature of the active component be not yet know .
 the purpose of this study be to determine 1 the nature of the active anticancer component in black cohosh and relate cimicifuga species and 2 the effect of the triterpene glycoside actein on the morphology of human breast cancer cell .
 full-size image 11k structure of actein -d-xylopyranoside .
 view within article .
 material and method chemical and reagent .
 all solvent and reagent be reagent grade water be distil and deionized .
 black cohosh fraction and purify component be dissolve in dimethylsulfoxide dmso sigma louis mo prior to addition to cell culture .
 triterpene glycoside be dissolve in dmso at g ml for d6 25 g ml a1 and db be dilute in ethanol before add to aqueous medium to a final concentration of ethanol .
 plant material .
 cimigenol 3-o--d-xyloside and triterpene glycoside from relate cimicifuga species be the kind gift of ye wen-cai guangzhou china documentation of material be study as describe by ye et 1999 zhang et 1999 zhang et .
 naturex south hackensack nj generously provide black cohosh extract contain and triterpene glycoside .
 black cohosh raw material be collect in the united state in 1998 from natural habitat dry naturally by air and identify by scott mori from the new york botanical garden .
 each lot of the raw material be compare with the authentic sample use hplc .
 a voucher sample 9-2677 be deposit in naturex 's herbarium .
 table .
 composition of and triterpene glycoside enrich extract from black cohosh .
 triterpene glycoside cimiracemoside 26r 26s acetyl shengmanol acetyl shengmanol cimigenol 25-oac-cimigenol 25-oac-cimigenol .
 .
 isoferulic .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 extraction and isolation procedure .
 black cohosh root and rhizome lot number 9-2677 south hackensack nj be extract with etoh water .
 the ethanol be remove at 45 55 c under reduce pressure .
 the concentrate extract be partition between methylene chloride and water which provide a fraction of triterpene glycoside tg from methylene chloride and tg from water .
 the methylene chloride be remove at 45 55 c under reduce pressure .
 the concentrate fraction be far partition between n-butanol and water and the tg fraction be obtain from the n-butanol phase .
 table .
 effect of purify triterpene glycoside from cimicifuga species on cell proliferation in mda-mb-453 her2 overexpressing human breast cancer cell .
 codeplant specieschemical g m a1cimicifuga acerinacimigenol c2cimicifuga acerina 22r -22-hydroxycimigenol d6cimicifuga d8cimicifuga dahurica12 -hydroxycimigenol dahurica24-o-acetylisodahurinol d11cimicifuga d13cimicifuga decimicifuga dahurica3-o--l-arabinopyranosyl cimigenol acactaea racemosaactein .
 full-size table .
 mda-mb-453 cell be treat with increase concentration of each of the cimicifuga component for 96 h and the number of viable cell determine use a coulter counter .
 similar result be obtain in an additional study .
 view within article .
 cell culture .
 mda-mb-453 er negative her2 overexpressing and mcf7 er positive her2 low cell be obtain from the atcc manassas va .
 cell be grow in dulbecco 's modify eagle 's medium dmem gibco brl life technology rockville md contain v v fetal bovine serum fbs gibco brl at 37 c co2 .
 mcf7 and mcf7 her2-18 mcf7 cell transfected with a full length her2 cdna coding region 45 fold increase her2 be the kind gift of dennis slamon lo angeles .
 this cell be maintain in rpmi supplement with fbs plus glutamine and psf gibco rockville md .
 proliferation assay .
 coulter counter assay to determine the growth inhibitory activity mda-mb-453 human breast cancer cell be expose to increase concentration of black cohosh extract contain or triterpene glycoside or purify triterpene glycoside from cimicifuga species for 96 h and the number of viable cell be determine by the coulter counter assay .
 cell be seed at cell per well in 24 well plate cm diameter 24 h later the medium be replace with fresh medium with or without the indicate test material in triplicate .
 the number of attach viable cell be count 96 h later use a model zf coulter counter coulter electronic hialeah fl and value be calculate as previously describe .
 cell viability be calculate by compare cell count in treat sample relative to cell count in the dmso or dmso ethanol control and convert to percentage .
 mtt assay the mtt assay be use to determine the sensitivity of mcf7 and mcf7her2 to actein .
 cell be seed at cell well in 96 well plate and allow to attach for 24 h .
 the medium be replace with fresh medium contain dmso or compound .
 the cell be treat for 96 h after which they be incubate with mtt reagent and the absorbance read at nm .
 colony formation assay .
 the effect of actein on the ability of mda-mb-453 cell to form colony be determine use the colony formation assay .
 cell be seed at cell per well in 6 well plate 24 h later the medium be replace with fresh medium contain dmso or compound in triplicate .
 the cell be treat with actein for 24 or 96 h then the medium be replace with fresh medium not contain actein and incubate for 8 day .
 after incubation medium be remove and cell be wash twice with pbs .
 cell be fix in 2 ml of ethanol for min after which ethanol be remove and sample be allow to dry at room temperature .
 colony be then stain for min use 2 ml 1 giemsa solution rinse with tap water and allow to dry at room temperature .
 for cell growth assay the datum be express as meanstandard deviation .
 control and treat cell be compare use the student 's t-test .
 indirect immunofluorescence microscopy of actein-treated cell .
 the effect of actein on mcf7 and mda-mb-453 cell structure be examine and compare by fluorescent microscopy .
 cell nucleus and actin filament be stain accord to the method of .
 mcf7 and mda-mb-453 cell be allow to attach to coverslip in 6 well plate 35 mm diameter treat with dmso control or actein or g ml for 48 h wash with dmem at 37 c and fix with pbs contain em-grade formaldehyde and triton for min at room temperature .
 the cell be next wash with pbs .
 after the second wash the pbs be replace with 1 ml well pbs contain 2 unit ml texas red-x phalloidin to stain the actin filament or 1 g ml dapi to stain the nucleus .
 the cell be then incubate for min at room temperature and protect from light under foil .
 all sample be visualize with a nikon optiphot microscope image be obtain with a micromax cool ccd charge-coupled device camera kodak kaf chip princeton scientific instruments monmouth junction nj use metamorph software universal imaging downingtown pa .
 result growth inhibitory activity of extract of black cohosh .
 previous experiment indicate that fraction and purify component from black cohosh inhibit the growth of human breast cancer cell .
 of the cell test the her2 overexpressing mda-mb-453 human breast cancer cell be the much sensitive to the growth inhibitory effect of the ethyl acetate fraction and the purify triterpene glycoside actein from black cohosh .
 mda-mb-453 cell overexpress the her2 fgf and ar receptor and be mutant for p53 and they be er negative .
 guided by the result of this previous experiment we test the growth inhibitory activity of extract of black cohosh root and rhizome contain different percent of triterpene glycoside on mda-mb-453 human breast cancer cell in order to explore the nature of the active component .
 cell be expose to increase concentration of the agent for 96 h and the number of viable cell be determine by the coulter counter assay as show in the extract with a low concentration of triterpene glycoside result in no inhibition of cell growth .
 the value the concentration that cause inhibition of cell proliferation for the extract with triterpene glycoside be 29 g ml and for the extract with triterpene glycoside the value be 12 g ml .
 an value of g ml m be obtain with the purify triterpene glycoside actein .
 the percent of the polyphenol isoferulic acid in the respective three fraction be and .
 full-size image 27k effect of 3 extract enrich for triterpene glycoside or actein on cell proliferation in mda-mb-453 her2 overexpressing human breast cancer cell .
 mda-mb-453 cell be treat with increase concentration of each of 3 extract contain triterpene glycoside or actein for 96 h and the number of viable cell determine use a coulter counter .
 similar result be obtain in an additional study .
 .
 view within article .
 growth inhibitory activity of compound from cimicifuga species .
 previous experiment indicate that of the black cohosh triterpene glycoside test actein be the much potent .
 to further characterize the nature of the active component we test the effect of a series of triterpene glycoside from relate cimicifuga species on cell proliferation .
 the much strongly act component be d13 3-o--d-xylopyranoside which have an acetyl group at position c-25 it have an of g ml 5 m compare to g ml m for the parent compound d11 didehydrocimigenol 3-o--d-xylopyranoside which lack the acetyl residue .
 compound d6 3-o--d-xylopyranoside the 24 epi derivative of compound d11 exhibit efficacy similar to that of d11 g ml m .
 actein -d-xylopyranoside with an equal to g ml m exhibit activity comparable to cimigenol 3-o--d-xyloside which have an value of 6 g ml 9 m .
 compound 24-o-acetylisodahurinol 3-o--l-arabinopyranoside a 24 acetyl derivative possess the next high activity with an value of 15 g ml m .
 compound c2 22r -22-hydroxy cimigenol and d8 12 -hydroxycimigenol 3-o--l-arabinopyranoside hydroxyl derivative of compound a1 exhibit little growth inhibitory activity with value of 29 g ml 46 m and 55 g ml 87 m respectively .
 compound de 3-o--l-arabinopyranosyl cimigenol 15-o--d-glucopyranoside which possess several sugar residue be also little active with an value of about 72 g ml m .
 colony formation assay .
 to ascertain the anticancer potential of actein we test the effect of actein on the ability of mda-mb-453 cell to form colony .
 the colony be small on average in the actein treat cell the value after 24 and 96 h be 33 g ml m and g ml m respectively .
 full-size image 7k effect of actein on the ability of mda-mb-453 cell to form colony .
 mda-mb-453 cell be treat with increase concentration of actein for 24 or 96 h and the number of colony determine use the colony formation assay .
 view within article .
 effect of actein on mcf7 and mcf7 her2 human breast cancer cell .
 to determine whether sensitivity correlate with her2 expression we compare the effect of actein on the genetically match pair of human breast cancer cell mcf7 her2 low and mcf7 her2 transfected with a full length her2 cdna coding region .
 we find that the her-2 transfected cell value 22 g ml m be much sensitive than the parental cell value 31 g ml m .
 full-size image 21k effect of actein on cell proliferation in mcf7 her2 and mcf7 human breast cancer cell .
 cell be treat with increase concentration of actein for 96 h and the number of viable cell determine use the mtt assay .
 similar result be obtain in an additional study .
 .
 view within article .
 fluorescent microscopy of the effect of actein on human breast cancer cell .
 we observe two effect of actein on mcf7 and mda-mb-453 cell structure by fluorescent microscopy 1 there be fewer cell in mitosis in the mcf7 cell treat with actein at g ml for 48 h and 2 the distribution of actin filament be alter after treatment with actein in both the mcf7 and mda-mb-453 cell .
 in the untreated cell actin be primarily beneath the cell membrane whereas in the actein treat cell actin be disperse in the cytoplasm and also present around the nucleus .
 furthermore the nucleus have a donut-shape which be characteristic of apoptotic cell .
 full-size image 94k fluorescence microscopy of mda-mb-453 and mcf7 cell treat with actein .
 mcf7 or mda-mb-453 cell be treat with actein at or g ml for 48 h fix with methanol stain for dna or actin and observe by indirect fluorescence microscopy as describe in material and method a mcf7 cell a dapi stain b actin stain leave dmso right g ml actein b mda-mb-453 cell a dapi stain b actin stain leave dmso right g ml actein magnification .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 this study examine the growth inhibitory activity of extract and purify component from cimicifuga species on human breast cancer cell .
 result support the hypothesis that the growth inhibitory effect of black cohosh on human breast cancer cell be primarily due to the triterpene glycoside fraction .
 in additional unpublished study we test the activity of individual component of the black cohosh caffeic acid polyphenol fraction .
 the value of the polyphenol cimicifugic acid g a and b fukinolic acid ferulic and isoferulic acid be great than m on mda-mb-453 cell .
 although this polyphenol be much active on mcf7 cell than mda-mb-453 cell they display very weak activity on both cell line .
 present and previous result indicate that the percent inhibition of cell proliferation be relate to the triterpene glycoside content of back cohosh and not the isoferulic content however we exclude a role for this polyphenolic fraction or other component .
 result contradict the finding of that the caffeic acid ester cae fraction be much active than the triterpene glycoside fraction on mcf7 human breast cancer cell .
 this difference in result be due to the use of different subclones experimental procedure or incubation medium or to the fact that the polyphenol and triterpene glycoside differ in molecular weight .
 thus perform assay in estrogen-free medium and be only able to find increase activity for the cae fraction in the crystal violet and early apoptosis assay .
 the acetyl group at position c-25 appear to be important for the growth inhibitory activity of the triterpene glycoside compound d13 3-o--d-xylopyranoside .
 this be consistent with the finding that the acetyl derivative of boswellic acid 3-o-acetyl-11-keto--boswellic acid akba from boswellia serratia and the 16 acetate derivative of gitoxigenin from digitalis purpurea be also much active than the parent compound .
 since the colony in the colony formation assay be small on average in the actein-treated cell actein appear to decrease the rate of cell proliferation actein appear to have cytostatic as well as cytotoxic activity .
 her2 may play a role in the action of actein since mcf7 cell transfected for her2 appear to be much sensitive to the growth inhibitory effect of actein than the parental cell .
 this be consistent with finding that mda-mb-453 cell which be er and be the much sensitive of the cell that we test .
 it be possible that the great sensitivity of the transfected cell may reflect in part the difference in growth rate of the transfected and parental cell .
 we find that treatment of mcf7 or mda-mb-453 cell with actein alter cell structure since the actin filament aggregate around the cell nucleus and the nucleus appear donut-shaped .
 this effect be consistent with actein induce apoptosis the aggregation of actin around the nucleus occur in response to cell stress .
 this result corroborate the result of previous study indicate that the growth inhibitory effect of actein or an extract of black cohosh be associate with activation of specific stress response pathway and apoptosis einbond et and einbond et .
 taken together this result indicate that the triterpene glycoside actein and relate compound may be useful in the prevention and treatment of human breast cancer .
 acknowledgment .
 we thank sung-min park hyun park shannon brightman alejandro ramirez and laura chen for excellent technical assistance weinstein for guidance and dennis slamon for the gift of mcf7 and mcf7 her2 cell .
 over the past several year specialist treat this patient have have to integrate change in the organization of medical care such as the creation of healthcare network design to improve the performance and the coordination of the care give into the way they practice .
 they have also have to adjust to new patient behavior .
 in oncology they be often confront with patient who wish to know as much information as possible and play an active role by be involve in treatment and in medical decision concern it .
 in recent year the imbalance in the amount of information hold by doctor in physician patient relationship have be greatly reduce and today information be available to patient on a much equal basis .
 the french law on patient right to access own medical record have help to speed up this trend .
 patient medical record be one of the much important element of medical treatment and of the sharing of information between healthcare professional .
 a cornerstone of the healthcare information system they be an indispensable tool for organize and summarize medical care and track the quality of the care provide .
 today 's effort to make medical care much efficient and effective and the desire for continuity in treatment between private-practice and hospital require the various healthcare professional to share information .
 in oncology experiment conduct outside of france have show that allow the patient to play an active role in the sharing of this record increase own level of satisfaction as well as that of the healthcare professional who treat them .
 enabling cancer patient to hold medical record may also allow them to reduce anxiety due to a lack of information or to the uncertainty of the information provide .
 moreover it may be consider as possibly beneficial to communication and compliance with medical treatment .
 the various study conduct in the united kingdom and the united state have show contrast result which seem to depend on the type of disease the patient suffer from and stage of illness the motivation of the medical team involve and the expectation of the various party .
 this study be the first phase of a research program that aim to assess the impact of medical record hold by cancer patient .
 here aim be to assess french breast cancer patient perception and expectation of information exchange during medical care .
 in particular we wish to find out what opinion would be if they be give medical record contain information that be essential to continue care .
 patient and method sample .
 this investigation focused on volunteer breast cancer patient who be aware of the diagnosis of disease with no limit on age or time since the diagnosis be make be treat in the rhne-alpes region of france million inhabitant locate in southeast of france .
 method .
 this investigation use a questionnaire-based survey .
 patient enrolment last from july to october .
 for patient inclusion 86 hospital physician surgeon oncologist and radiotherapist work in healthcare center and involve in the treatment of breast cancer be contact .
 to avoid selection bias in sampling they all have have a training for the patient inclusion .
 this physician have participate in a previous study that aim to determine expectation regard information exchange in the treatment of breast cancer .
 based on the number of patient that they see in a year which they declare in the first survey the physician be to distribute a questionnaire to either the first 5 or consecutive breast cancer patient that come to them for a consultation .
 in all 485 questionnaire be send out to the physician .
 each physician be allocate a batch of number questionnaire enable the number of questionnaire distribute to be determine when the questionnaire be return .
 patient be to send the anonymously complete questionnaire to the study coordination center use a postage-paid envelope .
 the clinical research nurse for the project contact the physician by post and by phone in order to remind them to include the patient in the study .
 questionnaire .
 the item on the questionnaire explore the follow 1 characteristic of the patient age family status level of education and size of city of residence and disease duration person who inform the patient of disease stage and communication with entourage 2 organization of treatment presence of a usual family practitioner or gynecologist and of a physician coordinating the medical care the frequency of care and motive for the late consultation the existence of a summary medical record and any repeat investigation that may have be perform 3 patient participation in the treatment frequency of document keep or give to healthcare professional any use of a summary sheet or table to note the date of upcoming consultation satisfaction and desire for involvement in the treatment and 4 patient preference for and expectation of medical record they would be give to hold contain essential information for the continue treatment of disease content type of document format paper or electronic and any possible impact advantage and drawback use a likert scale .
 at the end of each part of the questionnaire the patient write any comment they wish to .
 one specific question focused on the patient preference regard participation in the choice of treatment .
 we adapt the method use by degner in which breast cancer patient be to rank five different attitude in order of preference .
 in study patient be to give the same five attitude a number range from 1 the statement they agree with the much to 5 the statement they agree with the least i prefer to make the decision about which treatment i will receive .
 i prefer to make the final decision about treatment after seriously consider doctor 's opinion .
 i prefer that doctor and i share responsibility for decide which treatment be good for me .
 i prefer that doctor make the final decision about which treatment will be use but seriously consider opinion .
 i prefer to leave all decision regard treatment to doctor .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 the term very active a relatively active b collaborative c relatively passive d and very passive e will be use to provide much clarity .
 the item be list in the order bdcae accord to degner 's recommendation .
 the entire questionnaire be test beforehand on a sample of ten patient in the plan study condition .
 this enable the question to be adjust and correct .
 analysis .
 both univariate and bivariate descriptive analysis of all of the criterion be perform .
 this enable us to study the relationship between patient perception concern treatment and the medical record and characteristic age social status family status size of the town they live in stage of disease and time elapse since diagnosis .
 pearson 's chi2 test or fisher 's exact test be use for qualitative variable .
 all of the datum be process use spss software version for windows spss illinois usa .
 result .
 numbering the questionnaire enable us to estimate that 26 physician have distribute 194 questionnaire .
 with a total of anonymous questionnaire send in by patient the patient participation rate be estimate at .
 patient and treatment characteristic .
 forty-two percent of the patient be treat in a private healthcare establishment and in a public or non-profit healthcare facility in five territorial division dpartements of the rhne-alpes region in france .
 patient characteristic be summarize in table table 2 show the organization of the treatment during the course of disease .
 much of the time general practitioner be among the usual primary care physician .
 when a single physician coordinated medical care of the time in half of the case it be the oncologist .
 table .
 characteristic of patient in the sample .
 variablesn na age in year 22 29 6939 28 21 family status married living with 139 73 widowed 139 27 children yes119 85 including dependents36 116 31 size of town of residence 134 24 134 42 134 19 134 16 education level primary29 137 21 137 51 higher31 137 23 other7 137 5 person who give the diagnosisb hospital physician56 137 41 private-practice gynecologist38 137 28 general practitioner25 137 18 other physician27 137 time since diagnosis 6 months33 134 25 7 12 months25 134 19 13 18 months15 134 11 18 months61 134 45 stage of disease 125 24 125 relapse27 125 22 unknown11 125 9 other7 125 6 type of treatment receive surgery127 138 92 chemotherapy78 139 56 radiotherapy114 139 82 entourage inform of disease children117 118 99 other family members122 138 88 close friends128 138 93 co-workers56 138 41 full-size table .
 a figure vary depending on number of miss answer .
 b several possible answer .
 view within article .
 table .
 organization of care for breast cancer patient .
 variablesn na usual primary care physician general practitioner129 139 93 private-practice 139 43 oncologist9 139 6 homeopath4 139 3 no primary care physician3 139 2 the primary care physician be the same as before the diagnosis yes94 128 73 no34 128 27 time since last consultation with one of the primary care physician less than 1 month69 125 55 from 1 to 6 months44 125 35 from 6 to 12 months6 125 5 more than 1 year6 125 5 reason for last consultation with one of the primary care physician illness unrelated to cancer52 128 41 illness relate to cancer77 128 including follow-up53 71 75 including treatment11 16 including diagnosis8 71 11 cancer complications13 128 number of consultation in the last 6 month 3 including general practitioner48 137 35 including oncologist43 135 32 1 including surgeon72 136 53 including radiotherapist61 136 45 including private-practice gynecologist48 137 39 number of physician clearly identify as coordinating the medical care 237 137 27 193 137 68 including oncologist49 93 53 including surgeon28 93 including radiotherapist7 93 8 including general practitioner4 93 4 including private-practice gynecologist3 93 3 other2 93 2 137 3 unknown3 137 2 summary record use by physician yes97 121 unknown24 121 appointment recap sheet use by patient yes83 136 61 no53 136 39 unnecessarily repeat investigation if applicable yes3 137 2 no134 137 98 no miss document during consultation at physician 's office general practitioner89 83 private-practice gynecologist64 69 93 oncologist79 83 95 radiotherapist71 74 96 surgeon84 87 97 full-size table .
 a figure vary depending on number of miss answer .
 view within article .
 patient involvement in medical care .
 table 3 show the type of document the patient hold and pass on to healthcare professional .
 except for x-ray image or report and laboratory result patient be almost never in possession of any document whatsoever .
 as a result with the exception of x-ray and laboratory result they pass on few document to the various physician .
 table .
 type of document hold and pass on to healthcare professional by breast cancer patient .
 alwaysoftensometimesnever n na n na n na n na type of document hold laboratory 123 81 9 123 7 8 123 7 6 123 5 x-ray image reports84 125 67 12 125 18 125 14 11 125 9 surgery reports32 4 4 13 12 57 54 hospitalization reports27 26 7 7 9 9 62 59 letters from hospital physician to primary care physician19 19 2 2 15 15 66 65 letters from primary care physician to hospital physician16 16 1 1 13 13 72 71 letters between hospital physicians11 93 12 4 93 4 93 11 68 93 73 type of document pass on x-ray image reports51 115 44 115 9 34 115 115 17 laboratory results45 117 38 117 6 27 117 23 38 117 32 letters from hospital physician to primary care physician23 117 4 117 3 19 117 16 71 117 61 surgery reports19 95 95 15 95 16 61 95 64 letters from primary care physician to hospital physician21 116 18 5 116 4 34 116 29 56 116 48 hospitalization reports18 98 18 98 14 98 14 66 98 67 letters between hospital 99 1 99 1 17 99 17 71 99 72 full-size table .
 a figure vary depending on number of miss answer .
 view within article .
 ninety-five percent of the patient be satisfy with involvement in treatment be very satisfy and quite satisfy .
 only one woman be not at all satisfy .
 nevertheless of the patient want this level of involvement to remain the same want to be much involve want to be little involve and have no opinion on the matter .
 one-third of the woman survey do not answer this question .
 this patient seem rather much satisfy than the other be very satisfy and quite satisfy .
 regarding the choice of treatment state that physician have consult them in order to make a decision .
 on the whole the patient have a relatively passive attitude choose role d prefer for the physician to decide upon the treatment after take opinion into serious consideration .
 thirty-four percent of the patient choose role c collaboration choose role e very passive choose role b relatively active and opted for role a very active .
 when group together of the patient opted for a rather passive role d e prefer a collaborative role c and a rather active role a b .
 furthermore the very active role statement a be widely reject of the patient give this role a ranking of 5 the statement they agree with the least .
 patient-held medical record contain essential information for cancer care .
 according to the patient any hypothetical paper medical record they hold would have to contain all of the document essential to the treatment of disease .
 table 4 show approval whatever the type of document .
 the impact that such medical record have on the current situation be show in table the patient would mainly appreciate the usefulness of this record in case of an emergency consultation or to be able to have much information and well communication with physician .
 opinion be divide as to the risk of lose or forget the medical record as half of the patient agree with the proposal whereas the other half disagree .
 one-third of the patient raise the issue of privacy .
 table .
 type of document breast cancer patient would like include in the medical record .
 items desire in share medical recordsentirely agreemostly agreemostly disagreeentirely disagree n na n na n na n na laboratory results114 124 92 9 124 7 1 124 1 124 x-ray image 122 89 122 8 4 122 3 122 hospitalization reports99 118 84 15 118 13 2 118 2 2 118 2 surgery reports99 118 84 14 118 12 3 118 3 2 118 2 letters from hospital physician to primary care physician94 119 79 17 119 14 5 119 4 3 119 3 letters from primary care physician to hospital 118 76 118 17 5 118 4 3 118 3 letters between hospital 22 22 5 5 3 3 full-size table .
 a figure vary depending on number of miss answer .
 view within article .
 table .
 breast cancer patient point of view on patient-held medical record compare to current situation .
 impact of propose share recordsentirely agreemostly agreemostly disagreeentirely disagree n na n na n na n na advantages being well informed88 85 14 13 2 2 having much communication between hospital physician and private-practice 98 72 21 98 21 6 98 6 1 98 1 having much communication with physicians75 71 26 25 4 4 1 1 having much dialogue with entourage36 88 41 29 88 33 16 88 18 7 88 8 making emergency consultation with physician easier94 86 13 12 2 2 avoiding unnecessary repeat examinations66 64 25 24 3 3 being able to request a second medical opinion58 57 36 35 6 6 2 2 disadvantages risk of lose the records25 79 32 15 79 19 15 79 19 24 79 risk of forget the records26 83 31 13 83 16 16 83 19 28 83 34 problem of privacy with entourage21 23 15 17 22 24 32 36 problem of privacy with employer16 76 21 76 13 16 76 21 34 76 45 problem of privacy with insurance company17 84 12 84 14 19 84 23 36 84 43 full-size table .
 a figure vary depending on number of miss answer .
 view within article .
 seventy-nine percent of the patient agree to hold such medical record choose entirely agree and choose mostly agree .
 they wish to be able to write in the record choose entirely agree and choose mostly agree .
 out of 25 patient who have write comment specify that writing concern personal impression of the disease of treatment and 13 wish to mention side effect or the advantage and drawback of the treatment and write down question about the disease or the treatment .
 the patient who do not wish to hold medical record state that be able to read them plunge them even deep into this disease that they would just as soon forget .
 forgetting the disease would enable them to well come to term with it .
 the patient be unsure that they want to read a comment that they be not expect and state that there be no point in write in medical record because you either have to speak about it face-to-face with the physician or keep a personal diary .
 support of the principle of paper patient-held record be the same in all category of decision-making preference p .
 regarding the hypothesis that this medical record be make available in electronic format only of the patient own a computer and only have internet access .
 forty-one percent own a cd-rom drive and own a dvd-rom drive .
 table 6 show the patient various opinion on access to such record if they be make available in electronic format .
 table .
 breast cancer patient attitude towards electronic medical record .
 entirely agreemostly agreemostly disagreeentirely disagree n na n na n na n na access to record via cd-rom on computer38 92 41 15 92 16 9 92 92 33 access to record via dvd-rom on computer or television21 78 27 12 78 15 11 78 14 34 78 44 different access right for each member of the 97 41 97 21 11 97 11 26 97 27 full-size table .
 a figure vary depending on number of miss answer .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 the main result of this investigation be firstly that the breast cancer patient be satisfy with current level of involvement in treatment and that much prefer for decision on treatment to be make by the physician after have take the patient 's opinion into serious consideration .
 secondly the patient be willing to hold paper medical record contain information essential to the continue treatment of disease .
 this record be consider as useful to medical care and see as a possible mean to help improve information and communication .
 however some patient do express reservation about privacy and lose or forget this medical record .
 result on the patient involvement in treatment be consistent with other research although in other study patient be little satisfy with current level of involvement and wish to be much actively involve in medical care .
 there be significant variation between patient and for individual patient variation from one point in time to another .
 several factor may influence patient preference .
 in particular young patient with a high level of education who have relapse and live in a large city wish to participate in medical care and play an active or collaborative role .
 psychological variable and disease severity be also find to influence information need and decisional preference .
 the french law of 13 august call for the creation of a personal medical record by meet the need and expectation of population of breast cancer patient on willingness to hold medical record .
 indeed patient will have full control of this record which will be in electronic format and contain all of medical information .
 it will be complete by healthcare professional each time new diagnostic or therapeutic information be require in order to coordinate care .
 in study patient interest in hold medical record be only hypothetical .
 whatever the format of the medical record paper or electronic we must wait until patient-held record become a reality before we can observe how patient will behave .
 we must also take into account the patient who decline share medical record .
 in study half of the patient consider write in this medical record .
 in previous study of cancer patient the proportion of patient who write in record be and much than .
 being able to write in the medical record be often consider useful by patient who note reminder or question to ask physician at a late time .
 one of the first argument be that the record would allow patient to receive much information on disease a need that be demonstrate in previous research .
 this be perhaps the reason why the patient want the medical record to contain nearly all of the document offer to them test result report and letter .
 this confirm the result of an australian study show that of patient see hold own medical record as a mean of obtain information .
 thus it appear that for the patient in study hold own medical record be the mean to find information on disease diagnosis prognosis chance of recovery and the side effect they may experience .
 however we must consider the link that exist between patient desire to obtain information and desire to participate .
 one american study on cancer patient highlight a strong correlation between the preference of patient who want as much information as possible and desire to participate in decision-making .
 other have show that the desire to find out much information and the wish to participate be two very distinct thing .
 many patient who want much information do not necessarily want to get involve and participate much .
 result show no significant difference between decision-making preference and support of the principle of paper patient-held medical record .
 according to population of patient medical record equally be a mean of improve communication .
 in one study conduct in london patient confirm that by read record the barrier between physician and patient have be break down and the level of trust have be heighten .
 however contrary to this finding various randomized study have prove that patient-held medical record do not significantly improve communication between patient and physician in cancer care .
 on the other hand there may be much opportunity for the patient expectation that record improve communication among physician to be meet .
 a european study on female cancer patient show that the great cause for dissatisfaction be the communication between the hospital and the private-practice primary care physician be extremely satisfy satisfy and dissatisfied or extremely dissatisfied .
 moreover allow patient to hold record be show to be potentially beneficial to communication between healthcare professional .
 it appear that the record have little impact on communication between a patient and or entourage .
 result show that the patient already share a lot of information with the member of entourage who have in much case be inform of the disease .
 this have be show in other study namely in france where the majority of the patient want family to be fully inform .
 in study the spouse partner and child be the well inform .
 they play a very important role and provide a vital pillar of support for the cancer patient .
 the other advantage accord to the patient in study involve the continuity of cancer care .
 they see this record which contain all of the vital medical information as useful in case of emergency and as a mean to avoid repeat unnecessary investigation or request a second opinion .
 the principle of the usefulness of the record in case of an emergency have be show several time .
 in the united kingdom of the patient in lecouturier 's study appreciate have write information as a mean to avoid retelling medical history to each new healthcare professional they meet .
 meanwhile the french government have help address this need by create the cancer plan le plan cancer in .
 in order to improve the coordination of care one of the key measure of the cancer plan be the creation of a share oncology record .
 this record design as a mean to pass on patient-related information be accessible by both physician and patient themselves .
 thus patient will be able to play an active role in medical care should they desire .
 as ross demonstrate study show that patient prefer to emphasize the advantage of such medical record rather than focus on the disadvantage .
 as well they appear to unanimously agree on the benefit of such record while have much much divide opinion on the drawback .
 in effect they express certain fear half of them believe the record be lose whereas the other half feel there be little or no risk of this .
 the literature on similar experiment have show that the record be rarely lose none be lose in a recent study conduct in the united kingdom and in only of case in another british study carry out on breast cancer patient .
 as well the lose record be only copy and all of the original document be safely keep in the healthcare facility or with the physician provide care to the patient .
 the potential for lose this record raise the issue of privacy .
 however accord to the majority of the patient in study hold such record present no threat to privacy whether from employer insurance company or the people in entourage .
 the patient themselves decide who can or have access to record .
 yet of the patient feel that privacy be a vital issue .
 in publishing of the french law on patient 's right to access medical record spark a lively debate that have be partly resolve by the law of august .
 on one side patient association argue that direct access to record would ensure them transparency in medical care .
 it would also enable them to get a second medical opinion if necessary and would give them piece of evidence if they ever need to assert right .
 on the other side physician organization emphasize the risk of expose patient to highly technical medical information that be hard to understand and to bear psychologically .
 they also fear that the patient employer or insurance company would force the patient to pass the record onto them .
 finally they also fear a rise in the number of complaint and court claim .
 in fact this last two argument lead some physician to censor the information contain in the record .
 the development of information technology and increasing use in the healthcare field have make the use of share electronic medical record inevitable .
 this use will likely encourage patient participation in the decision-making process but the benefit remain to be assess .
 nonetheless the patient in study do not seem ready to hold medical record in electronic format and fewer than half completely agree to access medical information via electronic mean .
 an american study show that a little much than half of the patient be interested in accessing medical record via internet .
 patient must be ensure that privacy prevention of access to personally identifiable information by unauthorized person integrity the completeness of the information and accessibility access to up-to-date information at any time will be guarantee .
 as of today this issue have yet to be fully resolve .
 the participation rate suggest that patient be interested in this approach which concern them directly .
 the good response rate and the fact that physician be ask to give out the survey to consecutive patient should provide a fair representativeness of the study sample .
 many patient be in the remission phase or have be diagnose much than 18 month prior to the study .
 so the amount of time that have pass since the active treatment phase may have reduce the intensity of reaction .
 finally we have no datum on the patient anxiety .
 since many study have show that the patient psychological state influence satisfaction and attitude quality of life and anxiety should be measure in future experimental study .
 in conclusion in this study conduct on a sample of french woman suffer from breast cancer we have observe overall satisfaction with the care they receive for disease and with level of involvement .
 as well we have show a certain number of need and desire in term of patient information and participation .
 the majority of patient thus seem to be in favor of hold medical record contain as much information as possible subject to certain condition for access and consultation .
 experimenting with this record in the field will enable us to well determine content and the way of use them in practice .
 acknowledgment .
 the author wish to thank the anonymous patient who participate in this investigation the 26 physician who hand out the questionnaire to patient and the scientific council for the project pr m amiel dr jf brulet dr j caton dr x courtois dr p mere dr e dubost pr fn gilly dr jm guastalla dr am schott pr jm rodrigues dr p romestaing .
 they would also like to thank the follow partner the rhne region telemedicine association astrho the rhne-alpes private-practice physician union urml-ra the soins et sant home hospital care service the rhne-alpes-area healthcare facility participate in the concorde and oncora cancer-care network .
 in order to draw appropriate conclusion based on available clinical observation datum be collect from trial group all over the an overall survival benefit be demonstrate for patient receive either tamoxifen tam or polychemotherapy .
 several study on adjuvant endocrine therapy start in the late and adjuvant tam treatment be show to have a significant effect in postmenopausal patient year of age reduce the risk of death by approximately a wide range of treatment policy be employ on early breast cancer patient at that mostly due to lack of evidence of any survival advantage between the various treatment policy .
 better understand the mechanism of action of endocrine treatment be achieve by the demonstration of the estrogen receptor er in the tumour and the possible importance of fluctuation in steroid receptor level er and progesterone receptor pgr induce by treatment as tam and use this information of possible steroid receptor modulation in treat advance breast cancer patient by use cyclic tam and high dose medroxyprogesterone acetate mpa a high response rate in the cyclic arm versus p versus the tam alone treatment arm be find .
 no significant difference in duration of remission or survival be .
 to test the possible clinical effect of steroid receptor fluctuation and the theoretical assumption that combination of drug with different mechanism of action should be well than single drug therapy the present multicenter randomized study in postmenopausal node positive breast cancer patient be design to address the effect of cyclic use of tam and megesterol acetate ma on recurrence-free survival rfs and overall survival os to document a possible long endocrine responsiveness .
 the hypothesis be that cyclic treatment would further reduce receptor activity result in well outcome .
 due to the long half-life of tam a cycle of 8 week be use to reduce overlap therapeutic action of the sequential therapy .
 ma be use instead of mpa due to document effect and minor side effect in advance material and method patient .
 between march 1989 and december 1994 489 postmenopausal define as age at diagnosis year up to 75 year woman with operable breast cancer stage ii pt1 and 2 be include and randomized in this prospective adjuvant study .
 the study be recommend by the regional committee of ethic and the norwegian medicine agency .
 all patient be inform in write and give inform consent .
 twenty-five of this patient be exclude from the study due to protocol violation .
 the exclusion criterion be concomitant or previous malignancy or other illness seriously affect life expectancy .
 thirteen patient have t3 tumour and six have another cancer at the time of randomization .
 table .
 patient exclude due to protocol violation at the time of randomization .
 variabletam matamtotal randomized exclusion245244489 other cancer at randomization24 t3 tumour58 node metastatic receptor negative11 .
 evaluable patients235229464 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 median age range of the study population be 75 year and the main clinical characteristic be well balanced in the two group .
 table .
 patient and tumour characteristic .
 variabletam matamtotal of patients235229464 age year median range 75 75 of patient 65 .
 pt stage t1 t2 n125134259 t category missing8614 pt size cm median range pn stage 6 median examine range 8 2 34 9 2 32 1 3 4 pn stage miss all patient be .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 all patient have a normal chest x-ray and normal liver blood test before inclusion in the study .
 surgical treatment and adjuvant chemo- and radiotherapy .
 the surgical procedure be perform at different hospital .
 fifteen of the participate hospital treat at least patient and half of the study population be treat at six hospital .
 breast conservation surgery bcs be perform in 66 patient the rest n 398 be mastectomy .
 axillary dissection level i ii be perform in all but four patient in whom a biopsy be perform .
 during the inclusion period all patient year of age be offer a standard adjuvant intravenous chemotherapy .
 half of the patient n include in study receive peri- postoperative chemotherapy vincristin 1 mg day and 7 cyclophosphamide mg day 5-fluoruracile mg day and 7 and methotrexate mg day 7 .
 twenty-five patient in each arm receive postoperative standard cmf 9 every third week c cyclophosphamide mg m2 m methotrexate mg m2 and f 5-fluoruracile mg m2 as adjuvant treatment .
 table .
 treatment .
 variablestam matam surgery total235229 breast mastectomy199199 postoperative radiotherapy7773 chemotherapy perioperativea115115b postoperative cmf 92525 .
 duration of study medication month median range 24 52 24 1 87 full-size table .
 a chemotherapy give day and 7 postoperatively .
 b information miss in one patient .
 view within article .
 radiotherapy be give to all bcs patient n 66 and to patient with 4 metastatic axillary lymph node in a total of patient .
 randomization and adjuvant endocrine treatment .
 randomization be do by phone to the study center and perform as a block randomization block size 4 .
 each of the five health region in norway represent a stratum .
 patient be allocate to receive either tam nolvadex mg daily or cyclic tam ma nolvadex mg daily for 8 week alternate with megace mg daily for 8 week .
 in both arm adjuvant treatment be continue for 2 year or until first confirmation of recurrent disease as standard length of treatment at that time as oppose to present day 5 year treatment .
 primary tumour axillary nodal status and steroid hormone receptor .
 classification of the tumour be do accord to uicc tnm classification of malignant tumour 3rd edition revise 1982 .
 the distribution of pt classification size and axillary nodal status pn between the two treatment group be show in table tumour grade be give in 137 case and miss in 327 case .
 hormone receptor hr be measure by the dextran coat charcoal method as report er or pgr level fmol mg protein be criterion for hr positivity and level fmol mg be regard as hr negative .
 this study also include tumour with unknown receptor status but patient with tumour know to be hr negative at the time of randomization be not include .
 hr status be equally distribute between the two arm but the median level of er and pgr be high in the tam ma group .
 table .
 hormone receptor .
 variabletam ma n 235 tam n 229 total n 464 receptor positive18518379 er positive17417275 median fmol l range 1871 83 1772 pgr positive13913659 median fmol l range 91 76 er and pgr er unknown514721 pgr unknown545223 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 follow-up .
 patient be followed-up by clinical examination every third month for 2 year then every sixth month up to 3 year and thereafter on an annual basis until death or 96 month for nonrecurrent tumour and 66 month for tumour that recur .
 a clinical follow-up form be complete on every visit .
 initial site of loco-regional recurrence or distant metastases be record when confirm .
 confirmation be make as wall or regional node by cytology or histology whenever possible bone conventional radiology or bone scan lung chest x-ray or computer tomography ct when appropriate liver ultrasound and or ct confirm by cytology fnac when necessary .
 a novel breast cancer be define as a new malignant tumour in the contralateral breast or a new malignant tumour locate in a different quadrant of the ipsilateral breast in patient previously treat with breast conservation .
 a final follow-up be complete as of june .
 statistic .
 the primary end point be rfs .
 to detect a difference with a power of and significance level of and give an estimate 5 year rfs of in the tam arm it be estimate that patient in each arm be need .
 rfs be calculate from randomization to recurrence .
 patient with no recurrence be censor at the time of death or at the end of observation alive .
 secondary end point be os and time to diagnosis of a novel malignant breast tumour .
 os be calculate from randomization to death of any cause .
 in the analysis of time to a novel breast tumour patient be treat as censor at the end of observation period dead or alive in the case where this event do not occur .
 survival time to event as specify above be estimate by the kaplan meier method and the two treatment group be compare by the log rank test .
 due to similar result in the two treatment arm a cox proportional regression test be not perform .
 an interim analysis be perform 1 year after the end of inclusion pay attention to the pocock termination no difference be find .
 result duration of medication .
 all analysis be do on an intention to treat basis .
 the compliance to take study medication be fairly good median 24 month in both arm but the range be wide tam ma 52 month tam 86 month table 3 .
 in the tam ma arm 42 patient be treat little than month and 44 much than 28 month .
 in the tam arm 46 patient be treat little than month and 31 patient much than 28 month .
 follow-up .
 the median range follow-up time for all eligible patient n 464 be year and for patient still alive the median range follow-up time be year .
 survival and mortality .
 there be no difference in rfs 1 p .
 median rfs be year for the tam ma arm and be not reach in the tam arm .
 from the figure it be see that the tam curve level out just below survival .
 mean rfs be and year for tam ma and tam group respectively .
 five-year rfs rate be and for tam ma and tam arm respectively .
 full-size image 21k figure time from start of treatment to first recurrence for the tam group blue dash line compare to the tam ma group green dash line .
 number of patient still at risk at 5 8 and year be 159 and 33 tam group and 161 97 and 36 tam ma group .
 view within article .
 os be similar in the two treatment group 2 p with median survival of and year in the tam ma and tam group respectively .
 full-size image figure overall survival for tam group blue dash line and tam ma group green dash line .
 number of patient still at risk at 5 8 and year be 159 and 33 tam group and 163 98 and 37 tam ma group .
 view within article .
 median time of cancer specific survival be and year p .
 a total of 24 patient 12 in each group have a new contralateral or other quadrant of ipsilateral breast breast cancer .
 a new ipsilateral breast cancer be diagnose in 4 patient 3 in tam ma group and 1 in the tam group .
 median time to new breast cancer be and year in tam ma and tam group respectively .
 five-year os rate be and for tam ma and tam group respectively .
 table .
 status by allocate treatment .
 variabletam ma n 235 tam n 229 total n 464 main location of first recurrence loco-regional recurrence ipsilateral axilla437 .
 total342155 supraclavicular fossae41115 systemic recurrence lung141832 liver9716 others9413 .
 total6972141 missing location134 .
 total of .
 contralateral breast new cancer121224 .
 cause of death breast unknown8715 .
 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 breast cancer be the cause of death in 165 patient of the study population of the deceased patient and the total number of death be .
 the main location of relapse be similar in the two treatment group .
 side effect .
 side effect be assess at every visit .
 as expect tromboembolic event and vaginal bleeding be slightly much common in the tam ma group .
 side effect lead to cessation of medication be low as only 31 patient stop the therapy during the whole treatment period .
 table .
 side effect lead to cessation of medication .
 tam matamtotal patient 's fluid vaginal .
 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 discussion treatment background .
 in the mid the first report appear focusing on systemic adjuvant treatment of patient with operable breast systemic treatment strategy of breast cancer patient depend on the tumour extent histological grade and steroid receptor level er and or pgr age of the patient pre- or postmenopausal and axillary nodal status .
 adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal breast cancer patient use tam have be show to improve os and rfs compare to control but the optimal treatment of this cancer patient be still not to further increase the treatment effect different strategy have be use prolong treatment period from 1 year to 2 year far up to 5 year and lately long than 5 we use 2 year of adjuvant treatment to all patient as this be standard at the time when this trial start as oppose to 5 year at .
 er level in tumour predict response to endocrine treatment in patient with advance breast cancer as well as in adjuvant early stage but the length of treatment response be difficult to predict as one of the major problem in medical cancer treatment be resistance .
 sequential combination of drug with different mechanism of action attempt to delay development of hormonal resistance have be try to increase both rfs and os .
 combination treatment and hormone receptor .
 a combination frequently examine in the past have be tam and the progestin adjuvant treatment with tam have be show to increase the level of pgr after a short time of but no significant change in the mean content be find for pgr or androgen reseptor33 after 8 week of tam treatment .
 a possible explanation of well response use cyclic treatment compare to single drug therapy be increase binding of ma to the assume increase pgr .
 progestin then will decrease the er level as show in breast cancer thereby induce a relative insensitivity to the tissue for endogenous estrogen .
 in advance breast cancer patient cyclic tam and mpa have show a high response rate in the cyclic arm versus p versus the tam alone treatment arm but no difference in duration of remission or in another study a long median survival be find in the group give cyclic treatment 134 versus week but no significant difference in overall response cr pr this positive effect of cyclic treatment of tam and mpa in advance situation be not find in the present study .
 in this adjuvant setting it be not possible to verify the possible fluctuation of tumour steroid receptor .
 we do not measure the serum content of tam or ma .
 ma treatment possibly reduce tam serum level in the tam ma arm as this have be report for mpa and possibly influence the response in the cyclic arm .
 we include patient with er and or pgr positive and hr status unknown tumour but not prove hr negative tumour in the study as be the custom at that time .
 the end point be rfs and os hope for an increase of end point parameter in the investigational arm of the study due to possible different mechanism of action of the two drug postpone the development of resistance .
 no crossover to ma in the tam arm be plan in the study protocol .
 treatment group .
 treatment group be well balanced by randomization with regard to patient characteristic pt classification and primary treatment as type of surgery and perioperative adjuvant chemotherapy .
 there be a small difference between the two group in receptor level .
 for a number of patient receptor status be unknown .
 in a trial of this size the randomization procedure be suppose to handle this kind of all analysis be also perform on case with know hr receptor positive tumour only without any different outcome datum not show .
 relapse and mortality .
 no difference between treatment arm regard rfs or os be observe in study .
 the observe median rfs of year in study population of patient compare well with other the number and location of first event and relapse be also as expect .
 there be no statistical significant difference between the two treatment group regard new ipsi- or contralateral cancer .
 a 5 year survival rate of for study population comprise high-risk node positive breast cancer patient be as a great proportion of the eligible postmenopausal breast cancer patient in norway during the recruitment period 1987 1994 be include in study cancer registry of norway datum not show as of the 63 hospital treat breast cancer patient enter patient to the .
 conclusion .
 this prospective randomized population based study of postmenopausal node positive woman with er and or pgr positive or unknown operable breast cancer with a rather long follow-up time of median year do not reveal any statistically significant difference between 2 year of adjuvant cyclic tam ma treatment versus tam monotherapy with regard to rfs and os .
 to demonstrate an equivalence of the two treatment arm however a large number of patient would have be need in the trial .
 conflict of interest .
 the author have no financial or personal relationship with other people or organisation that inappropriately influence this work .
 acknowledgement .
 this work be financially support by the norwegian cancer society .
 we want to thank einar hannisdal and eva skovlund at the cancer clinic rikshospitalet-radiumhospitalet medical center oslo for important help in randomization datum handling and statistical analysis and gry skare at the cancer registry oslo for estimate the amount of patient available to randomization in this trial and all the physician enrolling patient into this study .
 therefore chemoprevention of cancer by nutraceuticals and phytochemical have become a flourish field of research over the past decade .
 ginger rhizome zingiber officinale commonly know as ginger be utilize worldwide as a spice and a flavoring agent .
 it have a long history of both culinary and medicinal use .
 ginger contain pungent phenolic substance collectively know as -gingerol 4-hydroxy-3-methyoxyphenyl-5-hydroxy -3-decanone one of the major pungent element of ginger have be find to exhibit antioxidant activity as determine by inhibition of phospholipid peroxidation induce by the fecl3-ascorbate system and confirm in many in vitro and in vivo system .
 gingerol have also be find to inhibit platelet aggregation and formation of prostaglandin and leukotriene .
 ginger oil at a single oral dose of 33 mg kg significantly suppress severe chronic adjuvant arthritis in rat .
 ginger consumption ameliorate the pain and symptom of rheumatic disorder and lower the platelet thromboxane production in human .
 recently the cancer chemopreventive potential of ginger have be determine by the inhibition of phobol ester-induced inhibition of epstein barr virus activation i raji cell and suppression of azoxymethane-induced intestinal carcinogenesis in rat and mouse skin tumor .
 also gingerol have be show to exhibit anticancer activity through the induction of apoptosis .
 cancer metastasis consist of a complex cascade of event which ultimately allow for tumor cell escape and seed of ectopic environment .
 for breast cancer cell to manifest malignant potential they must develop the ability to break through and dissolve extracellular matrix ecm particularly the delimitate basement membrane bm .
 the degradation of the pericellular bm and ecm be catalyzed by the concerted action of several class of ecm-degrading enzyme .
 one important class of ecm-degrading enzyme include the matrix metalloproteinase mmp .
 mmp have be implicate as possible mediator of invasion and metastasis in some cancer .
 recently show that -gingerol inhibit the formation of lung metastases of melanoma in an experimental mouse model .
 however there be limited knowledge regard the effect of -gingerol in term of metastasis and mmp by which it may exert antitumor effect .
 in this study we investigate the effect of -gingerol on tumor metastasis .
 thus far no study have be undertake to assess the effect of ginger on metastasis in breast cancer .
 therefore we examine the effect of -gingerol against mda-mb-231 human breast cancer cell .
 material and .
 material and reagent .
 -gingerol be purchase from biomol usa and be dissolve in ethanol and dilute in cell culture medium .
 mda-mb-231 cell be purchase from american type culture collection rockville md usa .
 the follow reagent and chemical be obtain from the respective supplier dulbecco 's modify eagle 's medium nutrient mixture ham 's f12 dmem f12 streptomycin and penicillin gibco brl ria-grade bovine serum albumin bsa and transferrin sigma louis mo usa for mmp be purchase from santa cruz biotechnology santa cruz usa .
 all other reagent be obtain from sigma .
 cell culture .
 the mda-mb-231 human breast cancer cell line be maintain in dmem f12 contain ml l of fetal bovine serum fbs with u l of penicillin and mg l of streptomycin .
 to examine the effect of -gingerol cell be plate with dmem f12 contain fbs .
 before mda-mb-231 human breast cancer cell be treat with -gingerol the cell monolayer be rinse and starve of serum for 24 h with dmem f12 supplement with 5 mg l transferrin 1 g l bsa and 5 g l selenium serum-free medium sfm .
 after serum starvation fresh sfm with or without the indicate concentration of -gingerol be replace .
 viable cell number be estimate 24 48 and 72 h after the cell be expose to -gingerol use the 3- bromide mtt assay as describe previously .
 in brief the mtt solution mg ml be add to the cell and incubate at 37c to allow cleavage of the tetrazolium ring by mitochondrial dehydrogenase and formation of blue formazan crystal .
 after 3 h the residual mtt be carefully remove and crystal be dissolve with isopropanol .
 the absorbance at nm be measure by spectrophotometry .
 adhesion assay .
 ninety-six-well plate be coat with fibronectin bd bioscience massachusetts usa g 1 ml pbs and incubate for 1 h at 37c with co2 .
 coated well be wash twice with pbs and incubate for 1 h with sfm .
 the well be rewashed with pbs and dry on a clean bench then mda-mb-231 cell cell well suspend in the medium contain 5 and m -gingerol be seed into coat well and incubate for 1 h at 37c .
 adherent cell be wash three time with pbs and reincubated in a medium contain 1 mg ml mtt for 3 h at 37c and the absorbance be measure at nm use a microplate reader molecular devices sunnyvale usa .
 experiment be perform independently three time .
 matrigel invasion assay .
 wells of a matrigel chamber bd bioscience be fill with sfm and adapt at room temperature .
 mda-mb-231 cell cell ml resuspended in the medium contain 5 and m -gingerol be carefully transfer into the upper chamber .
 lower chamber be fill with fbs medium to attract cell .
 matrigel chamber be incubate for 12 h at 37c with co2 .
 then the cell on the upper surface of the filter be remove by wipe with a paper .
 filter be stain with diff-quik stain solution dade behring newark nj usa and the cell on the low surface of the filter be fix onto a glass slide .
 cell in five randomly select microscopic field of the low slide be count .
 experiment be perform independently three time .
 wound healing migration assay .
 wound-healing migration assay be based on the repopulation of wound culture .
 the cell be seed into 12 well culture plate at cell ml and cultured in medium contain fbs to near confluence of the cell monolayer .
 confluent cell monolayer be incubate for 1 h with 1 g ml mytomicin c to stop cell proliferation .
 the monolayer be carefully wound use a yellow pipette tip and any cellular debris present be remove by wash with pbs .
 the wound monolayer be then incubate for 48 h in sfm contain 5 and m -gingerol .
 photograph of the exact wound area take initially be again take after 12 24 and 48 h .
 boyden chamber motility assay .
 pvpf filter 8 m diameter pore size be coat with gelatin solution for 16 h at room temperature .
 the low chamber be fill with fbs medium to attract cell .
 mda-mb-231 cell cell ml resuspended in the medium contain 5 and m -gingerol be carefully transfer into the upper chamber .
 the low chamber be fill with fbs medium to attract cell .
 the boyden chamber be incubate at 37c with co2 for 22 h .
 after gentle removal of the filter from the chamber the cell on the upper side of the filter be remove by wipe with a paper .
 the filter be stain with diff-quik stain solution dade behring and the cell on the low surface of the filter which penetrate the pore of gelatin-coated filter be fix onto a glass slide .
 cell in five randomly select microscopic field of the low slide be count .
 experiment be perform independently three time .
 matrix metalloproteinase activity gelatin zymography cell be seed into a six-well plate at cell ml and incubate in a medium contain fbs for 48 h .
 supernatants be collect and concentrate use centricon and mmp activity of the supernatant be investigate use gelatin zymography .
 the supernatant be mix with 2 sample buffer invitrogen and zymography be perform use gel polyacrylamide gelatin .
 mmp activity be visualize by staining with coomassie blue .
 matrix metalloproteinase amount assay .
 cell be seed into a six-well plate at cell ml and be incubate in medium contain fbs for 48 h .
 supernatants be collect and concentrate use centricon .
 next 96 well plate be coat with a l coating buffer solution mg na2co2 mg nahco3 1 ml ddw ph at 37c for 1 h .
 coated well be incubate with dilute primary monoclonal antibody .
 prepared supernatant be then add into well which be incubate at room temperature for 48 h .
 wells be wash twice with m pbs ph contain m nacl and be block with bsa solution for 3 h and then wash .
 wells be incubate with secondary mouse antibody for 2 h at 37c and then wash .
 tbm substrate solution tbm 1 tablet dmso ml be add into well and well be incubate overnight in the dark .
 the reaction be stop by the addition of 1 m h2so4 .
 the absorbance be measure at nm in a microplate reader molecular devices .
 reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction .
 total rna be isolate use tri-reagent sigma and cdna be synthesize use 2 g of total rna with superscript ii reverse transcriptase invitrogen .
 for amplification of cdna primer for mmp-2 upstream primer 5-caggctcttctcctttcscaac-3 downstream primer 5-aagccacggcttggttttcctc-3 and primer for mmp-9 upstream primer 5-tgggctacgtgacctatgaccat-3 downstream primer 5-gcccagcccacctccactcctc-3 anneal at 55c for 1 min with 35 cycle be use .
 the expression of human -actin transcript be examine as an internal control as describe previously .
 the pcr product be separate on a agarose gel and stain with ethidium bromide .
 bands corresponding to each specific pcr product be quantify by densitometric scanning of the expose film use the bio-profile bio-il application vilber-lourmat .
 statistical analysis .
 statistical analysis be perform use the statistical analysis system software sas institute cary nc usa .
 data be express as mean with standard deviation and analyzed via analysis of variance anova .
 statistically significant difference among the mean of the group be test at use duncan 's multiple range test .
 .
 effect of -gingerol on growth and adhesion .
 the viable mda-mb-231 cell number do not differ with -gingerol treatment from to m within 24 h .
 to elucidate the effect of -gingerol on metastasis we first examine the effect of -gingerol on cell 2 show the effect of -gingerol on the cell adhesion of mda-mb-231 -gingerol have no effect on cell adhesion at 5 m but result in a reduction at m compare to that at .
 full-size image 32k effect of -gingerol on cell proliferation in mda-mb-231 cell .
 mda-mb-231 cell be plate at a density of cell ml in a 24 well plate with dmem f12 supplement with fbs for 48 h .
 the monolayer be serum starve with dmem f12 supplement with 5 g ml transferrin 5 ng ml selenium and 1 mg ml bovine serum albumin for 24 h .
 after serum starvation the monolayer be incubate in serum-free medium with 5 m -gingerol .
 viable cell number be estimate by the mtt assay .
 each bar represent the calculate from three independent experiment .
 view within article .
 full-size image 17k effect of -gingerol on adhesion in mda-mb-231 cell .
 after cell ml suspend in dmem f12 contain 5 m -gingerol have be plate in each well of 96 well fibronectin-coated plate for 1 h the medium be gently remove and attach cell be assay use mtt assay .
 each bar represent the calculate from three independent experiment .
 comparison among different concentration of the -gingerol that yield statistically significant difference be indicate by different letter above each bar .
 view within article .
 effect of -gingerol on invasion and motility .
 the invasion and motility of the mda-mb-231 human breast carcinoma cell line be -gingerol show a dose-dependent inhibitory effect on cell invasion through the matrigel chamber .
 cell migration motility be a critical process of invasion allow primary tumor to metastasize .
 the treatment of mda-mb-231 cell with increase concentration of -gingerol lead to a concentration-dependent decrease in wound healing cell migration and cell motility by boyden chamber assay .
 full-size image 24k effect of -gingerol on invasion in mda-mb-231 cell .
 the cell be cultured in the presence of various concentration of -gingerol for 12 h within a matrigel invasion chamber .
 microphotographs of filter a and quantitative analysis of the matrigel chamber invasion assay b be show .
 invasion be express as a percentage of control m .
 each bar represent the calculate from three independent experiment .
 comparison among different concentration of the -gingerol that yield statistically significant difference be indicate by different letter above each bar .
 view within article .
 full-size image 21k effect of -gingerol on migration in mda-mb-231 cell .
 the cell be plate in a 12 well plate at a density of cell well with dmem f12 supplement with fbs .
 confluent monolayer be wound and then incubate in serum-free medium in the presence of 5 m -gingerol .
 at 12 24 and 48 h after wound the cell be photograph under a phase contrast microscope .
 view within article .
 full-size image 22k effect of -gingerol on cell motility in mda-mb-231 cell .
 the cell be cultured in the presence of various concentration of -gingerol for 22 h within a boyden chamber .
 microphotographs of filter a and quantitative analysis of the boyden chamber assay b be show .
 motility be express as a percentage of control m .
 each bar represent the calculate from three independent experiment .
 view within article .
 effect of -gingerol on activity amount and mrna expression of mmp .
 invasion of bm be principally mediate by the gelatinase matrix metalloproteases mmp-2 and mmp-9 .
 to determine whether -gingerol affect the mmp-2 and mmp-9 activity amount and mrna expression be 6 show that the activity of mmp-2 or mmp-9 in mda-mb-231 cell be decrease by -gingerol in a dose-dependent manner .
 the amount of mmp-2 protein in culture supernatant be detect to decrease in a dose-dependent manner as a result of mda-mb-231 cell culture with various concentration of -gingerol .
 reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction rt-pcr analysis of mda-mb-231 cell mrna suggest that the expression of mmp-2 and mmp-9 be decrease in this cell upon treatment with -gingerol .
 although there be no change in the mmp-9 protein level the mrna expression for mmp-9 be decrease by -gingerol treatment .
 full-size image 31k effect of -gingerol on mmp-2 and mmp-9 activity in mda-mb-231 cell .
 mda-mb-231 cell be plate in six-well plate at a density of cell well with dmem f12 supplement with fbs for 48 h the monolayer be incubate in serum-free medium in the absence or presence of 5 m -gingerol for 22 h .
 medium be collect and the activity of mmp-2 a and mmp-9 b be measure by a photograph of the mmp band which be representative of three independent experiment be b quantitative analysis of the band .
 each bar represent the calculate from three independent experiment .
 comparison among different concentration of the -gingerol that yield statistically significant difference be indicate by different letter above each bar .
 view within article .
 full-size image 38k effect of -gingerol on mmp-2 and mmp-9 amount in mda-mb-231 cell .
 mda-mb-231 cell be plate in six-well plate at a density of cell well with dmem f12 supplement with fbs for 48 h .
 the monolayer be incubate in serum-free medium in the absence or presence of 5 m -gingerol for 22 h .
 medium be collect and the protein amount of mmp-2 a and mmp-9 b be estimate by elisa .
 each bar represent the calculate from three independent experiment .
 comparison among different concentration of the -gingerol that yield statistically significant difference be indicate by different letter above each bar .
 view within article .
 full-size image effect of -gingerol on mmp-2 and mmp-9 mrna expression in mda-mb-231 cell .
 for rt-pcr mda-mb-231 cell be treat with -gingerol .
 total rna be isolate and rt-pcr be perform to investigate the mrna expression of mmp-2 a and mmp-9 b .
 a photograph of ethidium bromide-stained gel which be representative of three independent experiment be b quantitative analysis of rt-pcr .
 relative abundance of each band be estimate by densitometric analysis .
 each bar represent the calculate from three independent experiment .
 comparison among different concentration of the -gingerol that yield statistically significant difference be indicate by different letter above each bar .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 this investigation attempt to address the role of -gingerol on metastasis by which it may exert antitumor effect .
 metastasis be a complex multi-step process involve cell adhesion invasion and motility .
 hence interruption of one or much of this step be one approach for anti-metastatic therapy .
 to date there be no direct evidence to show that -gingerol exert such an effect on the development of breast cancer metastasis .
 the present study be the first to demonstrate that -gingerol can significantly inhibit the metastatic process of mda-mb-231 human breast cancer cell .
 the initial invasive action of metastatic cell involve interaction of tumor cell with the ecm through the process of cell matrix adhesion .
 once malignant cell have detach from the primary tumor they bombard the surround bm and adhere to meshwork of type iv collagen laminin and fibronectin .
 as show in 2 of this manuscript -gingerol inhibit attachment to the fibronectin which be one of the major component of bm dose dependently .
 the process of tumor cell invasion and metastasis require the degradation of connective tissue associate with vascular bm and interstitial connective tissue .
 the bm be the large barrier between a free malignant cell and the bloodstream and it must be traverse before malignant cell can enter circulate blood .
 therefore invasion through a bm be a critical step in metastasis .
 breast cancer cell invasiveness be investigate in this study use a transwell chamber system .
 to successfully penetrate the filter membrane cell must successfully adhere degrade and traverse the matrigel-coated insert .
 the present study show that -gingerol inhibit the invasion of mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell in a dose-dependent manner .
 however in this study cell proliferation be not affect by m -gingerol treatment until 24 h although cell invasion be decrease during this period .
 therefore this datum suggest that the effect on inhibition of cell invasion take priority over the decrease in cell proliferation .
 motility be another property of cancer cell that be need for migration from the primary site to a secondary organ .
 any alteration of this property would interrupt the metastatic cascade .
 the present study show that treatment with various concentration of -gingerol reduce the motility of mda-mb-231 cell .
 the mechanism by which -gingerol inhibit cell adhesion invasion and migration be not yet clear .
 several line of evidence strongly implicate mmp particularly mmp-2 in the process of tumor cell invasion and metastasis .
 this include a positive correlation between mmp-2 expression and invasive potential and the inhibition of metastasis formation by mmp inhibitor in vivo .
 mmp be a family of zinc-dependent enzyme consist of propeptide catalytic hinge and cooh-terminal domain .
 all mmp be produce in latent form that require catalytic removal of the propeptide domain for function .
 mmp-2 and mmp-9 be unique because of the inclusion of three fibronectin type ii repeat within catalytic domain .
 demonstrate that mmp-2 significantly contribute to the invasion of bone marrow fibroblast by mda-mb-231 cell .
 this investigator exclude the possibility that contact between breast cancer cell and bone marrow fibroblast result in the rapid release of inactive membrane-associated mmp-2 .
 once release mmp-2 may associate with breast cancer cell-associated membrane type 1 mmp tissue inhibitor of mmp-2 complex facilitate the activation and subsequent invasion of normal tissue by the malignant cell .
 because much malignant cell contain surface-associated fibronectin this be likely to be an important mechanism for the development of metastases in many cancer .
 report that plasma concentration and activity of mmp-2 be significantly low in control compare to those in cancer benign and high-risk patient .
 and mmp-9 expression have be describe as a positive prognostic marker in node-negative breast cancer .
 here we show that the activity of mmp-2 and mmp-9 be decrease by -gingerol treatment and suggest that the level of mrna for mmp-2 and mmp-9 be decrease in mda-mb-231 cell treat with -gingerol .
 additionally -gingerol be find to decrease the amount of mmp-2 protein in culture supernatant as a result of treatment of mda-mb-231 cell with -gingerol at level above 5 m but the level of mmp-9 remain unchanged .
 in conclusion we have describe here for the first time that -gingerol inhibit metastasis of the mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell line .
 as such we suggest that the anticancer effect of -gingerol may contribute to the inhibition of metastasis by decrease the activity and expression of mmp-2 and mmp-9 .
 ginger can be ingest in considerable amount in the human diet mg 1 g day .
 consider that ginger contain -gingerol and derivative the concentration of -gingerol use in this study m should be achieve in vivo .
 so -gingerol may be useful for prevent or treat some cancer .
 frequency and radiological feature be use as a measure of screening performance and may allow comparison between different programme although this require the adoption of agree criterion for ic definition identification and radiological review of screening mammogram report as negative in woman who subsequently develop an ic be consider a quality control aspect of as recommend in european and uk guideline for quality assurance and advocate for screening mammogram of ic should be review and classify into define recommended classification vary but generally comprise a true ic not visible on the screening mammogram but visible on mammography at diagnosis b false negative ic with minor abnormality possibly worth diagnostic assessment also call minimal sign ms c false negative ic with clear definite abnormality which should have prompt diagnostic assessment also call screening error se or miss and d occult ic not visible at screening nor at time of diagnosis .
 according to european guideline good screening performance be achieve when of review mammogram be classify as se or miss cancer the ms category be not strictly consider a miss cancer because the mammography finding be subtle and may not have prompt recall from screening and it be possible that this cancer be largely identify only with knowledge of the subsequently detect .
 a few study have explore the effect of mammography review methodology on classification of ic and different review methodology be currently employ which do not allow valid comparison within or between optimal review process be not define in the european or uk guideline although depending on the adopt method the reviewer may be facilitate to identify the ic in the screening mammogram thus review method will impact classification of the several aspect of the review process may potentially affect reviewer classification include case mix extent of information provide versus blinding and the number of reviewer and consensus yet little of this have be directly evaluate in study that compare review method and how this may impact classification of ms relative to miss ic .
 we present a retrospective study of mammographic review of interval breast cancer use a validate set of screening mammogram and compare review methodology use multiple reviewer .
 the aim of the study be to assess the influence of review method include the extent of information available at time of review on classification of ic particularly those within the false negative spectrum and to estimate associate variability in classification .
 we use the evidence from this work to discuss the implication of radiological review in screening and the importance of define and standardising review methodology as a quality control measure in screening practice .
 material and method .
 the set of mammogram employ in this study consist of screening case negative screen report as negative and confirm as such at repeat screening seed with screening case report as negative and follow by an ic within 2 year .
 ten ms and se ic case be choose randomly from case previously review by three experience radiologists2 not involve in review film in this study to ensure consensus in categorisation .
 all screening mammogram include in this study relate to the same period and screening centre .
 subjects identification datum be conceal on all film .
 original conventional screen film mammogram be digitized and a dvd be prepare to display each de-identified case in the follow sequence a the two adjacent oblique view follow by full screen magnification of b upper half and c low half .
 the same sequence be show for craniocaudal view simulate that currently adopt for report at full-field digital mammography workstation .
 six radiologist with no prior knowledge of the study 's film be involve in film reading for this study .
 they have different experience in reading mammogram from 5 to year and a total caseload between to over mammogram read .
 to compare the effect of review method all film reading be perform in three independent phase separate in time .
 a first phase review method 1 simulate blind or mask review radiologist be invite to look at the whole set unaware as to which be the ic and of case control mix ratio and to report opinion based on three option a negative return to screening screen b no need for referral to assessment but minor abnormality see or c abnormality see definitely worth of diagnostic assessment .
 reporting be give on a predefined form indicate on a scheme of the two mammography view the exact side and site of the abnormality note if any .
 after approximately 2 week a second phase of review review method 2 be perform simulate a partially inform review the set now include only the ic display as previously describe but the radiologist be aware that this be all ic .
 reporting be based on the same approach as for phase for the final review phase review method 3 after approximately 2 week the dvd provide simulate a fully inform review include only interval case together with the diagnostic mammogram .
 display and report approach remain constant .
 each report for all review phase be check by one radiologist not involve in film reading for the study set sc to verify if ic have be exactly identify by the reviewer .
 we describe the distribution of classification of case by reviewer and by review method .
 the probability of ic be report as se or minimal sign be determine accord to reading radiologist and review method by multivariate analysis logistic regression with extra binomial variation use package .
 inter-observer variation in report ic and negative control with review method 1 be determine accord to kappa statistic .
 kappa be design to adjust for expect chance agreement .
 by convention value of and be respectively indicative of slight fair moderate substantial and almost perfect concordance in .
 result .
 table 1 show the distribution of classification of ic by reviewer and by review method .
 ic report as se in the average be at review method 1 range by radiologist at review method 2 range and at review method 3 range respectively .
 ic report as ms in the average be at review method 1 range by radiologist 5 at review method 2 range and at review method 3 range 15 respectively .
 table 2 show the result of multivariate analysis of the probability of ic classification as se or minimal sign for reader radiologist and reading modality effect .
 no significant association be evident as to reader whereas a significantly high probability of ic classification be evident for review method 2 and for review method 3 compare to review method .
 table .
 distribution of classification of interval cancer accord to review method for six radiologist .
 review phaseradiologisttotal reading abcdef review method 1 negative11141513141784 minimal 6 screening error86463229 24 review method 2 negative1191114121168 57 minimal screening 33 review method 3 37 minimal signs43434624 screening 42 full-size table .
 view within article .
 table .
 radiologist and review method effect on the classification of interval cancer as screening error or minimal sign .
 variableodds ratiostandard confidence interval radiologist .
 review method .
 full-size table .
 reference category .
 view within article .
 table 3 show the classification of negative or normal screen as report at review method average reporting of ms or se rate be range by radiologist 11 or range 5 respectively .
 distribution by report category be similar for all but one reader d minimal sign se who clearly adopt too a low threshold for suspicion .
 the average ppv for ic of a ms report at first reading be range by radiologist and that of a se report be range 17 .
 table .
 distribution of classification of negative screening case for review method 1 by radiologist .
 classificationradiologisttotal reading a b c d e f negative52 65 55 69 75 21 26 56 57 71 63 minimal signs17 21 9 11 14 18 26 32 15 19 19 24 21 screening error11 14 16 6 7 33 41 9 11 4 5 79 16 full-size table .
 view within article .
 inter-observer consistency in report ic and negative control at review method 1 be show in table overall reproducibility be slight be low for minimal sign and fair for negative and se report .
 table .
 inter-observer concordance kappa statistic for classify interval cancer and negative control at review method .
 review classificationkappa average six reviewer z statisticp minimal screening .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 european guideline rightly focus on ic frequency rather than ic review to a the quality of a screening radiological review of ic however be important to evaluate and potentially improve the performance of radiologist involve in a programmefurthermore it provide information on clinical quality that be gather from epidemiological while it may be argue that radiological review of ic may not be a worthwhile approach from a programme 's perspective a strong case have be make for potential ability to guide clinical and research priority in improve .
 if radiological surveillance of interval breast cancer be adopt as part of clinical quality assurance then two issue should be point out .
 first it currently lack standardisation and evidence on how review method may impact classification of interval second it have medico-legal implication in some setting and should be do in a valid and fair manner that approximate reasonable practice .
 the extent to which the film-reading process be inform or blind be expect to have an effect on classification and in reality one replicate the exact condition of screening practice in an experimental design so we do not claim to have replicate real screening and instead we have use comparative phase of reading .
 this allow valid evaluation of difference in classification between phase within the study .
 in brief work provide far evidence on two aspect of radiological review of interval breast cancer .
 first the extent of information provide to film reader at time of review influence classification of ic and screening mammogram in general .
 the much inform the little blind the reviewer the much likely that a screen will be classify as show an abnormality .
 this association be strongly evident for both category ms and miss of ic .
 second we have show substantial variability between reader in classification of ic for both blind and inform review method .
 we simulate blind review in phase 1 reviewer be unaware which be the interval case and unaware of the case-mix ratio for interval and normal screen .
 phase 2 be semi-informed reviewer be only aware they be study interval case and phase 3 be fully inform reviewer be aware they be study interval case and have the diagnostic mammogram show the ic .
 phase 1 or blind review be not comparable with reality since the reader be aware of perform a review of a series seed with cancer case with a much high cancer prevalence than in current screening .
 the much common reaction to such a condition even for an expert reader be to reduce the threshold for suspicion to maximize sensitivity as miss a cancer be usually perceive as a great fault than unnecessary recall of a negative case .
 this be the much likely reason for have a fair proportion of normal screen classify as abnormal in the first phase of the study .
 the reality of screening where the reader be not prompt to case which will subsequently develop an ic and be face with a large majority of negative screen be that some cancer will either not be perceive or perceive but judge as not warrant recall .
 adopting a radiological review method that be close to screening practice as possible be extremely important to avoid overestimation of false negative miss classification and much so when the review be perform for medico-legal purpose .
 the latter be seldom perform in practice use a blind approach which might have major medico-legal implication if the review outcome or conclusion set unrealistic standard for radiologist performance or indeed for that of the screening process in general .
 as the international screening environment raise increase litigation issue for clinical staff understand the relevance of a standard blind review method be expect to be of broad interest in service screening .
 this work as well as other study see table 5 show that inform relative to blind review will lead to much ic be classify as miss .
 study differ in the design we use which allow us to compare phase of increase extent of information and to quantify relative difference in classification of interval case .
 a similar study design be use by duncan and but that study fail to demonstrate increase false negative rate when compare blind ic only to inform review with knowledge of cancer side site and pattern .
 table .
 summary of study that compare blind and inform interval cancer ic review method include the present study proportion of case review as screening error be calculate .
 studyicreviewersic negative control review as screening error blinded mix reviewsemi-informed ic only reviewfully inform review present hofvind et moberg et duncan de rijke et amos et .
 full-size table .
 current screening reading per day per 15 week be blindly seed with case from a review set with 92 interval cancer and 47 negative control .
 ic negative control ratio in the review set be while the overall blind reading ratio be .
 view within article .
 the aim of blind review with interval case seed in a screen negative series be to reproduce screening condition where cancer prevalence be very low and may in addition to fatigue loss of attention lead to a false negative report .
 of course the current screening cancer negative ratio cancer prevalence be reproduce and a compromise must be find between the number of ic in the set allow sensitivity estimate and the size of the set to be review .
 in study we choose a ratio and ic with 6 reader allow for a total of ic reading to assess average sensitivity .
 the ratio with which ic be mix with negative control at blind review vary in different study see table 5 and be high than ours in the study of moberg et ratio and in the study of de rijke et ratio .
 it might be expect that an excess concentration of cancer in the set might influence the reviewer to adjust threshold for suspicion towards high sensitivity but hypothesis remain unproven .
 the compromise between a high cancer to control case ratio and a reasonable set size explain why despite relatively small sample size study allow us to show significant difference in ic report accord to review methodology .
 we focused on ic within the false negative spectrum to assess whether mammography review method have a differential effect on the much subtle cancer ms or the much obvious cancer miss or se .
 although much inform review method increase classification within both category of ic this be in fact much evident and much significant for the ms category .
 we feel that it be reasonable to have treat repeat measurement three reading of the same film per reviewer as independent measurement in the analysis .
 it may be argue that some of the change in classification of case in study relate to a learn effect that the reviewer be much likely to identify case as a result of the sequential phase of film reading have keep some memory of previous reading .
 although this be theoretically possible it be unlikely to account for the highly significant difference show in datum which be much likely due to the impact of the extra information provide at review method 2 or 3 relative to method in addition we separate the film reading phase by a 2 week period during which each of the review radiologist will have read a large volume at least of screening and diagnostic mammogram .
 study design might be criticised for lack of comparison with previous mammogram or for use old screen film mammogram instead of much recent case or digital mammogram .
 comparison with previous mammogram be common practice in a screening program when prior film be available .
 we do not include this aspect to avoid complexity in identify a true effect of the review method and for reason of efficiency consider several reading phase be do and previous mammogram be not always routinely display in current screening reading in service .
 had we include previous mammogram where available this would perhaps have show a slight increase of true positive abnormality recall for investigation particularly minimal sign and a slight decrease in false positive recall but would not have substantially change the overall finding and conclusion of this work .
 we use this particular set of mammogram since it be a standardised set with know outcome use in a previously publish study13 with film digitised for soft copy reading on dvd .
 we intentionally do not use digital mammogram for several reason digital mammography have not yet be convincingly show to be superior to screen film mammography it be still not widely adopt in europe where review of much incident interval still deal with screen film mammogram and a proper evaluation of digital mammogram would require the set to be display on a dedicate workstation .
 irrespective of this reason we compare phase of reading within the same set so the finding be valid whether much recent film or much sophisticated technology be use .
 in conclusion we provide evidence on the effect of mammography review methodology on classification of ic .
 the much inform the review of mammogram of case that be subsequently identify as have an ic the much likely that the screening mammogram will be classify in the ms or se miss category .
 due to the subjective nature of mammography interpretation there be substantial variability in radiological classification of ic but this should not deter from standardising mammography review method to ensure validity relative to reasonable screening practice .
 inter-observer variability in classification suggest that multiple reviewer should be employ with a consensus approach where there be disagreement .
 if radiological review of ic be to be perform as part of quality assurance in screening then datum support the use of blind review method since inform review significantly increase the frequency of an ic be classify as a false negative .
 whenever possible the proportion of negative control seed with ic should be as high as possible since this be much representative of the screening scenario .
 this reduce the increase perception bias that might occur when the prevalence of ic in the set be high and allow for a much realistic classification of interval breast cancer .
 conflict of interest statement .
 all author declare the absence of any financial and personal relationship with other people or organisation that inappropriately influence bias research .
 although an increase proportion of new breast cancer diagnosis represent potentially curable early stage disease a significant proportion of this woman will experience a relapse .
 as a result much than breast cancer-related death be anticipate in the united state each year .
 consequently investigator strive to further delineate the pathophysiology of breast cancer and develop therapeutic innovation in order to minimize individual recurrence risk and optimize the potential for cure .
 within the last year a number of insight and therapeutic innovation in the management of early stage breast cancer be report .
 selected highlight will be review here .
 incident breast cancer case in the united state .
 one of the much highly publicize breast cancer-related study within the past year report a decline in incident breast cancer case .
 at the san antonio breast cancer symposium sabcs ravdin and colleague demonstrate a sharp decline in age-adjusted incident breast cancer case among woman in the united state in compare with .
 although the incidence of new breast cancer diagnosis remain stable through an decline in the age-adjusted annual incidence rate be observe from .
 this decline be evident only for woman year of age or old and be much pronounce for woman with estrogen-receptor positive breast cancer compare to those with er-negative disease .
 this trend be ascribed primarily to the early report of the women 's health initiative whereby deleterious effect of hormone replacement therapy be report result in a subsequent decline in hormone replacement therapy prescription among post-menopausal woman in the united state .
 in fact after an increase incidence of coronary artery disease and incident breast cancer case with hormone replacement therapy be report in hrt use decline by by the end of that year .
 in situ breast cancer .
 pre-invasive breast cancer either ductal or lobular carcinoma in situ be indicator of increase risk for the development of invasive disease .
 as such this lesion be potential target for intervention aim at reduce the rate of subsequent development of invasive cancer .
 several relevant study be report at the american society of clinical oncology asco annual meeting .
 in one study investigator screen the surveillance epidemiology and end result seer database for incident in situ case diagnose between 1988 and .
 selected tumor and patient characteristic for the identify incident case be evaluate and outcome report .
 of this and represent dcis and lcis respectively .
 approximately one-third be treat with breast conserve surgery bcs alone one-third with bcs with irradiation and one-third with total mastectomy .
 there be no difference in disease-specific survival demonstrate for woman treat with bcs and irradiation compare with total mastectomy .
 this finding be consistent with the result of the oxford overview meta-analysis .
 three national surgical adjuvant breast and bowel project nsabp dcis trial be also update this year .
 nsabp b17 evaluate bcs with or without irradiation nsabp b24 evaluate bcs and irradiation follow by tamoxifen versus placebo and nsabp b35 evaluate bcs and irradiation follow by tamoxifen versus anastrozole .
 as anticipate the majority of observe recurrence among woman with dcis treat with bcs be ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence ibtr .
 the addition of radiotherapy confer a reduction in the risk of invasive ibtr .
 few locoregional or distant failure be observe in the absence of an invasive-ibtr .
 in a combine analysis of b17 and b24 approximately one-half of ibtr be invasive .
 however only of pts treat with bcs experience a breast cancer-related death after develop an invasive ibtr .
 advances in adjuvant chemotherapy .
 the optimal adjuvant chemotherapy strategy for woman with early stage breast cancer have not yet be determine .
 in an ideal treatment paradigm subgroup of woman who derive significant benefit from a give treatment strategy would be clearly identify and offer treatment while subgroup who derive no significant benefit would be spare the potentially deleterious effect of treatment .
 this type of individualized risk-benefit calculus be illustrate by the taxane example .
 the introduction of taxane into the adjuvant treatment strategy represent a milestone in therapeutic innovation with significant benefit demonstrate in a number of adequately power randomized trial .
 however taxane-containing regimen be also associate with significant rate of short and long-term toxicity .
 thus investigator strive to further characterize the risk-benefit calculus for subgroup of woman with early stage breast cancer so that taxane-based strategy may be tailor to the appropriate population .
 taxane-containing chemotherapy .
 efficacy of adjuvant taxane-containing regimen .
 several independent study have now report improve outcome for woman with early stage breast cancer treat with adjuvant taxane-containing regimen .
 the overall efficacy of this strategy be recently confirm in both a pool analysis and a meta-analysis .
 in the pool analysis of patient participate in nine adjuvant taxane trial significant disease free survival dfs benefit be report both overall rr p and in the lymph node-positive subset rr p .
 survival benefit be also report both overall rr p and in the lymph node-positive subset rr ci p .
 the absolute benefit in dfs and overall survival os in favor of taxane-containing regimen range from to and from to respectively .
 in a recently report meta-analysis of woman participate in 12 adjuvant taxane study the hazard ratio hr for os be p in favor of the taxane-containing regimen .
 thus the incorporation of taxane into the adjuvant strategy confer significant overall survival benefit .
 whether all subgroup particularly woman with node-negative disease derive benefit from adjuvant taxane therapy remain uncertain .
 the meta-analysis on this topic by the early breast cancer trialists collaborative group be anticipate .
 evaluation of taxane formulation .
 determination of the ideal adjuvant taxane formulation dose and schedule be also an active area of investigation .
 eastern cooperative oncology group ecog 1199 for example evaluate weekly versus q3 weekly schedule of paclitaxel mg dose versus 175 mg dose respectively or docetaxel 35 mg dose versus mg dose respectively after four cycle of q3 weekly adriamcycin cyclophosphamide ac at conventional dose and mg dose .
 preliminary result be report in with no significant benefit observe with either taxane or schedule .
 however a trend be observe toward a dfs benefit with weekly paclitaxel administration .
 in ecog 1199 be update for the woman eligible for analysis after a median follow-up period of month .
 despite the initial report in of a trend toward a dfs benefit with weekly paclitaxel administration there be no difference with either taxane or schedule at the time of the update analysis .
 however significant difference be observe in the toxicity profile of each regimen .
 for example the incidence of grade 3 4 febrile neutropenia be in the q3 weekly docetaxel arm versus in the other study arm .
 in an exploratory subset analysis there be an apparent benefit with the weekly paclitaxel regimen in the hormone receptor-negative population and with the q3 weekly docetaxel regimen in the hormone receptor-positive population .
 exploratory analysis although provocative and hypothesis generate must be interpret with caution .
 evaluation of taxane schedule .
 the role of sequencing in adjuvant anthracycline and taxane chemotherapy administration have also be investigate .
 traditionally when sequential adjuvant anthracycline-taxane therapy be plan the anthracycline be typically administer prior to the taxane .
 this sequencing convention be recently challenge in a randomized phase ii study evaluate 4 cycle of dose-dense docetaxel 75 mg m2 before or after 4 cycle of conventional dose ac mg .
 upfront docetaxel administration be associate with decrease dose reduction and superior relative dose intensity rdi .
 however whether the increase rdi will translate into improve efficacy be uncertain .
 sequential versus concurrent anthracycline-taxane strategy have also be evaluate .
 in a recent phase iii study 617 patient with node-positive operable breast cancer be randomized to receive adjuvant epirubicin either sequentially or concurrently with either paclitaxel or docetaxel .
 in an exploratory analysis there be no significant dfs difference between the study arm .
 furthermore consistent with ecog 1199 the superiority of a specific taxane be not demonstrate .
 in big 2-98 woman with node positive breast cancer be randomized to one of four arm a75 x4 cmf x3 4 cmfx3 a75 3 3 cmf 3 or at 75 4 cmf 3 where t docetaxel .
 the result of this study be originally report at asco .
 although the sequential a t arm prove superior to the at and a arm for dfs there be no os benefit observe with any of the evaluate regimen .
 this study be recently update with a cns substudy evaluate incident brain metastases detect post-mortem .
 in this substudy although the taxane-containing strategy be associate with high rate of abnormal csf cytology and abnormal mri no difference in cns relapse rate at death between the taxane and non-taxane cohort be observe .
 estrogen receptor er expression and taxane efficacy .
 the potential relationship between estrogen receptor er expression and taxane efficacy be evaluate in a pool analysis of patient participate in two very different breast cancer international research group study bcirg and pacs .
 in bcirg concurrent adjuvant docetaxel adriamycin and cyclophosphamide tac versus concurrent 5 fluourouracil adriamycin and cyclophosphamide fac be evaluate with 5 year dfs versus p and os versus p benefit demonstrate with the taxane-containing regimen .
 in pacs 6 cycle of adjuvant 5 fluorouracil epirubicin and cyclophosphamide fec be compare to a sequential regimen of 3 cycle of fec follow by 3 cycle of docetaxel fec-d show improve 5 year dfs versus p and os versus p for the taxane-containing regimen .
 in the recent analysis of pool datum from the two study dfs and os benefit be report for both the er-positive and er-negative cohort .
 specifically the hazard ratio for dfs be versus and the hazard ratio for death be versus for the er-positive and er-negative cohort respectively .
 however the test for interaction between er status and chemotherapy regimen be not statistically significant .
 give that er positivity have prove predictive of response to anthracycline-based chemotherapy in prior study this investigator also explore the predictive capacity of er-positivity for taxane responsiveness .
 in this analysis the relative efficacy of docetaxel do not appear to be significantly low in patient with strongly er-positive tumor compare to those with weakly or intermediately er-positive tumor but the confound effect of dose size number and specific drug use limit the utility of this result except to say that a global taxane and hormone receptor interaction be unlikely to be absolute .
 dose density .
 the dose dense strategy aim to optimize cell kill by sequentially eradicate the numerically dominant rapidly proliferate cell population follow by eradication of much indolent resistant cell .
 since the reporting of significant survival benefit with the administration of dose dense adjuvant adriamycin cyclophosphamide and paclitaxel in cancer and leukemia group b calgb 9741 the dose dense strategy have be evaluate in a number of other setting .
 for example the ago trial of dose dense epirubicin paclitaxel and cyclophosphamide etc versus a conventional schedule of ec follow by t be recently report .
 in this study 1284 woman with high risk node-positive early stage breast cancer be randomized to a sequential course of 3 cycle of e t and c mg for a total of 9 cycle administer every 2 week with g-csf support or 4 cycle of q3 weekly ec mg follow by 4 cycle of q3 weekly t at 175 mg m2 .
 after a median 62 month follow-up period the dose dense strategy confer significant os benefit versus p .
 this result represent the much impressive survival benefit to date in this high risk population .
 however the generalizability of this result be somewhat limited by the introduction of both dose density and dose intensity into the study schema .
 in the context of other study however which have demonstrate a limited dose response relationship for all three active component in the ago regimen in the evaluate dose range we can envision the study as deliver the same functional dose of the three drug .
 consequently one may conclude that the dose dense schedule much than compensate for the decrease number of drug administration .
 in another recently report study of dose-density national cancer institute of canada ncic patient be stratified by nodal status er status and primary surgery to 6 cycle of oral cyclophosphamide epirubicin and 5 fluorouracil cef 4 cycle of adriamycin and cyclophosphamide follow by 4 cycle of paclitaxel ac-t or a dose dense strategy of 6 cycle of epirubicin and cyclophosphamide follow by 4 cycle of paclitaxel ec-t administer every 2 week .
 at the time of the first interim analysis the adjust 3 year rfs be and for the cef ec-t and ac-t regimen respectively .
 in an exploratory analysis a non-significant trend favoring ec-t be observe when compare with cef among the er-negative subgroup hr p .
 the superiority of cef and dose-dense ec-t for rfs compare with conventionally schedule ac-t and the equivalence to date with either of the former regimen lead the author to conclude that taxane may not be indicate for all patient .
 further analysis with long follow-up be anticipate .
 table .
 national cancer institute of canada ncic schema .
 regimenscheduletotal cyclesanthracyclinetaxanecyclophos-phamide5fu per cycletotal mg mg m2 iv d1 and a75 mg po d1 mg m2 d1 and d8 mg m2 iv mg m2 iv mg m2 iv d1n a mg m2 iv mg m2 iv mg m2 iv d1n a full-size table .
 cef oral cyclophosphamide 5-fluorouracil ac-t adriamycin cyclophosphamide and paclitaxel ec-t epirubicin cyclophosphamide and paclitaxel d day .
 view within article .
 advances in targeted therapy with trastuzumab .
 a number of the pivotal adjuvant trastuzumab herceptin trial originally report in be recently update .
 in hera woman with node-positive or high risk node negative breast cancer be randomized to observation 1 year of adjuvant trastuzumab or 2 year of trastuzumab after primary chemotherapy .
 in the experimental arm trastuzumab be administer at an initial dose of 8 mg kg and then 6 mg kg every 3 week thereafter .
 in a significant 2 year dfs benefit be observe with 1 year of adjuvant trastuzumab compare with observation versus respectively p .
 in the recent update after a median 2 year follow-up period an os benefit be report .
 specifically the unadjusted hr for the risk of death with trastuzumab compare with observation alone be p .
 efficacy result from the 2 year trastuzumab treatment arm be still unreported .
 similar result be observe in an update of the joint analysis of n9831 and nsabp b31 .
 in this clinical trial trastuzumab be administer concurrently with paclitaxel after four cycle of q3 weekly ac and then either weekly or q3 weekly respectively for a total 1 year duration of trastuzumab therapy .
 in the update analysis perez and colleague confirm that the previously report benefit of trastuzumab therapy be sustain .
 specifically after a median follow-up period of year the report 4 year dfs be versus and the report 4 year os be versus in favor of the trastuzumab study arm .
 another pivotal adjuvant trastuzumab trial bcirg be also update .
 in this study patient be randomized to 4 cycle of ac follow by 4 cycle of docetaxel ac-t ac-t with trastuzumab initiate with docetaxel and administer for a total duration of 1 year ac-th or 6 cycle of docetaxel carboplatin with trastuzumab tch administer concurrently and then administer for a total duration of 1 year .
 the result of a plan interim analysis be report in with a hr of p for ac-th and for tch p compare with the control arm .
 in an exploratory analysis woman with breast cancer exhibit co-amplification of both her2 and topoisomerase ii the dna replication and recombination enzyme targeted by anthracycline appear to derive a therapeutic advantage with anthracycline-trastuzumab therapy .
 conversely a differential benefit with anthracycline-trastuzumab therapy be not observe among woman without this co-amplification .
 thus it be postulate that woman without the co-amplification may be able to forgo the anthracycline component of this regimen thereby avoid the risk of cardiotoxicity associate with anthracycline-trastuzumab co-administration .
 in the recently report second interim analysis dfs benefit be sustain for both trastuzumab-containing arm hr for ac-th versus ac-t and for tch versus ac-t although the magnitude of the benefit be diminish compare with the first analysis .
 much notably however in the second interim analysis the previously report predictive capacity of her2 and topoisomerase ii gene co-amplification be significantly diminish compare with the first interim analysis .
 thus whether there be a subset of woman with her2-positive breast cancer who may forgo anthracycline-containing regimen and the associate risk of cardiotoxicity remain uncertain .
 her2 expression and chemosensitivity .
 investigator endeavor to identify subset of woman who benefit from specific chemotherapy regimen .
 in a recent pool analysis of the subset analysis from seven randomized control trial gennari and coworkers report a reduction in relapse risk and a reduction in risk of death among adjuvant trastuzumab-nave anthracycline-treated woman with her2-overexpressing breast cancer when compare with the non-overexpressing cohort .
 the author conclude that the superiority of anthracycline-containing adjuvant chemotherapy regimen appear to be limited to the her2-overexpressing cohort .
 there be no observe residual effect of anthracycline-based chemotherapy over non-anthracycline-based chemotherapy among woman with her2-negative breast cancer .
 the enhance sensitivity of her2-overexpressing breast cancer to anthracycline be postulate to reflect in part co-amplification of her2 and topoisomerase ii .
 although the impact of coamplification be not yet well define this effort reflect the evolve paradigm shift in adjuvant management strategy whereby chemotherapy recommendation be increasingly tailor to the biology of individual tumor .
 importantly this datum be derived entirely in the pre-trastuzumab era and significance in setting where the antibody be routinely administer be uncertain .
 trastuzumab-mediated cardiotoxicity .
 trastuzumab-mediated cardiotoxicity be an important clinical concern particularly when trastuzumab be administer in conjunction with an anthracycline .
 a number of cardiac safety update in the pivotal trastuzumab trial be recently report .
 the n9831 investigator report that no far cardiac event be observe at year 3 compare with year 1 with a cumulative incidence of cardiac event of versus in the trastuzumab versus control arm respectively .
 one cardiac death be observe in the control arm but no cardiac event have be observe in the trastuzumab study arm to date .
 the nsabp b31 investigator report similarly stable cardiac incident rate of versus at 3 year and versus at 5 year with trastuzumab versus not respectively .
 this investigator also propose a clinical prediction model for trastuzumab mediate cardiac event incorporating age anti-hypertensive medication status and baseline leave ventricular ejection fraction .
 the result cardiac risk score aim to predict cumulative risk of incident cardiac event with anthracycline-trastuzumab therapy .
 her2 status determination .
 significant controversy have recently arise around her2 status determination .
 her2 status be currently determine by measure her2 protein expression by immunohistochemistry ihc and or her2 gene amplification by fluorescence in situ hybridization fish .
 it be reasonable to expect that an increase in the level of the trastuzumab target namely the her2 receptor would confer additional therapeutic benefit .
 conversely it be reasonable to expect that trastuzumab therapy would confer no significant benefit in the absence of her2 amplification or overexpression .
 however a recent analysis of the central her2 testing perform in the large randomized north american adjuvant trastuzumab trial nsabp b31 suggest that the benefit see with adjuvant trastuzumab may not be confine to patient with ihc and or fish-positive tumor .
 in nsabp b31 woman be eligible for enrollment if they have ihc or her2-positive breast cancer as determine centrally or at an approve reference lab .
 for the 1795 enrolled patient 174 of tumor be originally classify as her2-positive but later prove ihc-negative and fish-negative for her2 on central lab review .
 however a consistent dfs benefit be observe in every subset of woman on the study include those woman with ihc-negative fish-negative her2 status on central review rr p .
 this finding may seem discordant with prior study such as calgb which demonstrate no benefit with trastuzumab therapy in woman with her2-normal breast cancer in the metastatic setting but in the latter study patient be randomized only after local lab first identify them as non-overexpressing .
 the critical distinction be that the patient randomized on the adjuvant trial be first call positive by local lab and later call negative centrally .
 hence potential explanation for the nsabp b31 datum include the possibility of false negative result on central lab testing problem with or hetereogeneity within the specimen provide for evaluation or some as yet undetermined biologic explanation .
 until this issue be fully elucidate and give the significant survival improvement demonstrate in the adjuvant trastuzumab trial it be reasonable to offer adjuvant trastuzumab to any woman breast cancer have ever be report as her2-positive even in the face of discordant result from another lab .
 to facilitate decision regard her2 testing the asco publish guideline on this topic early this year .
 table .
 her2 testing and rr in nsabp b31 study of adjuvant trastuzumab .
 categoryn act acth n of event act acthrr ci p-value 789 799 114 93 23 ihc 748 151 ihc 299 161 138 32 fish ihc174 92 82 .
 full-size table .
 reprinted with permission .
 view within article .
 conclusion .
 although the incidence of one type of early stage breast cancer appear to be on the decline in the united state the optimal treatment paradigm for all type have not yet be determine .
 until we be able to successfully cure all woman with early stage disease ongoing refinement of current management strategy be anticipate .
 recently successful variation of taxane-containing regimen and application of the dose dense strategy have be report .
 furthermore there have be a reassure stabilization of cumulative trastuzumab-mediated cardiotoxicity event in the adjuvant setting with long follow-up .
 however the identification of biological breast cancer feature that accurately predict responsiveness to conventional chemotherapy and or targeted therapy remain an ongoing area of investigation .
 we hope that far insight into the pathophysiology of breast cancer will permit far refinement of the adjuvant systemic therapy paradigm .
 as a consequence it be anticipate that adjuvant therapy recommendation will become increasingly tailor to the affect individual and the biology of cancer .
 in 1993 krag et first report perform sentinel lymph node biopsy slnb use a radioactive colloid on breast cancer patient .
 since report many study have show the feasibility and accuracy of slnb on breast cancer result in prevalence as a technique for determine nodal staging for breast cancer .
 lymphoscintigraphy lsg be often perform before slnb with a radioactive colloid .
 it show drainage from the primary tumor to the axillary node and show various number of axillary node .
 chakera et report that unsuccessful sln mapping be relate to patient 's age and body weight .
 additionally the injection site of radiotracer patient 's age and localization of the tumor be also report to cause failure in visualization on lsg .
 however the significance of the number of lsg-visualized axillary node be still unclear .
 in this study we have explore the potential factor that affect the visualization of axillary node on lsg and furthermore we discuss the possible significance of this modality .
 patient and method .
 in this study patient with clinical stage breast cancer be retrospectively examine .
 exclusion criterion include pregnancy and neoadjuvant treatment diagnostic surgery and neoadjuvant chemotherapy .
 informed consent be obtain from all patient prior to examination and surgery .
 all patient undergo lsg and slnb use isotope or blue dye and isotope in combination .
 in the morning on the day of surgery 185 megabecquerels of 99mtc-phytate dai-ichi radioisotope laboratory tokyo japan in sterile saline total volume ml be inject subdermally at four site around the tumor .
 when tumor be not palpable patient undergo periareolar injection .
 after injection of radiocolloid the breast be leave unmassaged .
 shielding be use at injection site .
 lsg be perform min after injection .
 anterior view of the image breast be obtain .
 if a visualize lymph node be not define as an area of increase uptake in the axilla lsg be perform again 2 h after injection .
 in the blue dye method a total of 5 ml of indigo carmine dye dai-ichi seiyaku osaka japan be inject at four site into the peritumor in the operate room under general anesthesia .
 a 5 min postinjection massage of the entire breast be perform .
 intraoperative detection of the radioactive sln be perform use a -detection probe tyco healthcare japan tokyo japan .
 a radioactive node be identify as a discrete area of radioisotope uptake separate from the injection site with count great than 25 per s and clearly high than background count .
 each discrete radioactive sln be remove completely until the background count be little than of the much radioactive resected sln .
 sln be stain blue and or radioactive .
 the intraoperative freeze section analysis of the resected sln be perform for all patient .
 all sln be bisect along major axis one section of each pair be fix embed in paraffin and stain use standard histopathological procedure .
 the other section of each pair be send for intraoperative freeze section examination .
 in the event that the diameter of sln be little than 5 mm only one section be embed with the cut surface up freeze and stain with hematoxylin and eosin .
 in the event that the diameter be much than 5 mm in diameter sln be bisect along major axis and one section of each pair be slice at 2 mm interval .
 thereafter each specimen be evaluate as part of a freeze section examination .
 for patient intraoperative histological result be negative for malignancy they undergo no far axillary dissection .
 the follow case continue to complete axillary dissection 1 patient with clinically apparent positive node n1 2 patient diagnose as positive in intraoperative freeze section analysis 3 patient with no identification of sln during procedure .
 all patient undergo breast conserve surgery or mastectomy by the same specialized surgeon .
 regarding the diagnosis use lsg the number of visualize axillary node be classify into three group 1 patient with nonvisualized node 2 patient with only one visualize node and 3 patient with multiple visualize node .
 among the three group patient be compare as to clinicopathological characteristic and result of slnb .
 full-size image 63k lymphoscintigraphy show non-visualized node a one visualize node b two visualize node c and three visualize node d .
 view within article .
 statistical analysis be perform use the 2 test for qualitative variable .
 quantitative variable be analyzed with one way factorial analysis of variance .
 the spearman correlation test be use to analyze the statistical correlation between the number of visualize axillary node and that of histological metastatic node .
 to evaluate interaction and independent influence on factor for sln status multiple logistic regression model be create .
 significance be define as p .
 result .
 eighty-eight patient be analyzed in this study between april and january .
 of this three patient with bilateral breast cancer be include and this patient undergo bilateral slnb .
 in total 91 breast and axillae be retrospectively evaluate .
 clinicopathological characteristic include gender age tumor location tumor classification lymph nodal status histological type and the number of histological positive node be show in table of 91 cancer 77 be invasive ductal carcinoma 9 be ductal carcinoma in situ and 5 be other type 3 mucinous carcinoma 1 medullary carcinoma and 1 invasive lobular carcinoma .
 sixty-three patient have negative node 28 patient have positive node and no patient have isolate tumor cell .
 table .
 clinicopathological characteristic of 88 breast cancer patient .
 gender n male1 female87 age y mean range 28 81 tumor location n upper inner quadrant19 lower inner quadrant14 upper outer quadrant47 lower outer quadrant9 central portion2 tumor classificationa n tis9 t146 t234 t32 lymph node statusa n n16 histologic type n invasive ductal carcinoma77 dcis9 others5 number of histological positive node n 1 319 4 98 full-size table .
 a uicc classification scheme with tnm category dcis ductal carcinoma in situ .
 view within article .
 slnb procedure perform be show in table among all patient patient undergo slnb use isotope only and 61 patient in combination with blue dye and isotope .
 eleven patient be inject in periareolar area and patient be inject subdermally around the tumor .
 no significant difference exist between the biopsy procedure among the three group .
 table .
 the number of visualized axillary node on lymphoscintigraphy among different procedure of sentinel lymph node biopsy .
 of visualize nodesp-valuestotal n 9 1 n 61 2 n 21 n 91 sln identification method n ns radiocolloid3 22 5 radiocolloid blue dye6 39 16 61 injection site of radiocolloid n ns peritumoral8 53 19 periareolar1 8 2 11 full-size table .
 sln sentinel lymph node .
 view within article .
 result of slnb and lsg-findings be show in table nineteen patient have a 2 h delay image because of failure of the immediate image to visualize .
 nine patient have no lsg-visualized node while 61 patient have only 1 node and 21 patient have multiple node .
 table .
 result of lymphoscintigraphy and sentinel lymph node biopsy in all patient .
 of visualize axillary node on lymphoscintigraphy n 161 221 of remove sln per patient mean range 8 success rate of sln identification .
 full-size table .
 sln sentinel lymph node .
 view within article .
 regarding the number of lsg-visualized node clinicopathological characteristic be provide in table eight of the 9 patient with no lsg-visualized node have primary tumor localized on the upper outer quadrant of the breast while 31 of 61 patient with 1 node or 8 of 21 patient with multiple node suffer lesion in the upper outer quadrant p .
 seventeen of 21 patient with multiple lsg-visualized node have clinically positive node .
 the number of lsg-visualized node be associate with clinical nodal status p .
 table .
 clinicopathological characteristic among the status of visualized node on lymphoscintigraphy .
 of visualize nodesp-value n 9 1 n 61 2 n 21 age y ns mean range 36 78 28 81 78 bmins mean range location n p upper inner lower inner quadrant194 upper outer quadrant8318 lower outer central tumor size mm ns mean range 7 65 53 38 lymph nodal status n p histologic type n ns invasive ductal carcinoma75119 dcis162 .
 full-size table .
 uicc classification scheme with tnm category bmi the body-mass index be the height weight ratio calculate by body weight kg divide by the square of the height m dcis ductal carcinoma in situ .
 view within article .
 result of slnb by the number of lsg-visualized node be give in table sln be successfully identify in of lsg-nonvisualized case while all patient with one or multiple lsg-visualized node be successfully identify p .
 for patient with multiple lsg-visualized node the mean number of dissect sln be range 1 8 be significantly high than those with nonvisualized node or 1 node p .
 meanwhile the risk of sln metastasis for one resected sln be 8 51 .
 for two resected sln the risk be 14 .
 for 3 resected sln the risk be 5 7 .
 with 1 node on lsg the risk of sln metastasis be 14 61 .
 with 2 node the risk be 9 18 .
 with 3 node the risk be 3 3 .
 accordingly metastasis be find for of sln in patient with multiple visualize node on lsg while in patient with 1 node and in patient with nonvisualized node have metastasis p .
 significant correlation be see between the number of visualize node and that of histological metastatic p .
 table .
 result of sentinel lymph node biopsy among the status of visualized node on lymphoscintigraphy .
 of visualize nodesp-value n 9 1 n 61 2 n 21 success rate of sln identification maximum radioactivity content in sln count s ns of remove slnsp sln status positive rate number of histological positive node n p 47 9 1 31 11 7 4 91 2 5 1 full-size table .
 sln sentinel lymph node .
 view within article .
 full-size image relationship between the number of visualize axillary node and that of histological metastatic node .
 significant correlation be find between the number of node p .
 view within article .
 multivariate analysis of prognostic factor for sln status be show in table in univariate analysis tumor size p clinical lymph nodal status p and the number of lsg-visualized node p be significant respectively .
 in multivariate analysis the number of visualize axillary node on lsg be the only significant independent factor .
 table .
 multivariate analysis of prognostic factor for sln status .
 ci for hrp-value tumor lymph node status referent on .
 full-size table .
 sln sentinel lymph node hr hazard ratio ci confidence interval .
 number of visualize axillary node on lymphoscintigraphy .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 slnb have be emerge as a minimally invasive alternative to axillary lymph node dissection for nodal staging in breast cancer .
 preoperative lsg be often carry out before slnb with a radioactive colloid which enable physician and surgeon to see the migration root from primary tumor to the axillary node .
 regarding the clinical availability of lsg some report have discuss the significance of the nonvisualization of axillary node .
 however the significance of the number of visualize node have be unclear .
 therefore in this study we retrospectively evaluate the clinical factor which potentially be involve in the visualization status of axillary node on lsg .
 table .
 factor affecting the successful mapping on lymphoscintigraphy .
 author y nradiotracerratefactor marchal f colloid injection site of radiotracer localization of the tumor chakera ah 44299mtc-nanocolloidal albumin body weight injection site of radiotracer goyal a 82399mtc-nanocolloidal albumin bmi tumor size localization of the tumor sln identification rate of remove sln lo yf 23299mtc-sulfur colloid size lymph node metastasis rousseau c colloid sln identification rate of remove sln radioactivity content in sln .
 full-size table .
 bmi body-mass index be the height weight ratio calculate by body weight kg divide by the square of the height m .
 rate of nonvisualized case on lymphoscintigraphy .
 factor associate with a fail axillary mapping on lymphoscintigraphy .
 view within article .
 in case successful lsg-mapping be obtain in and the result be acceptable compare with previous report table 7 .
 the difference be due to type or amount of isotope .
 in study 99mtc-phytate be use while 99mtc-colloidal albumin or 99mtc-sulfur colloid be use in much other report and 99mtc-phytate be report to show well accumulation compare with 99mtc-colloidal albumin .
 additionally in study 185 megabecquerels of radiocolloid be use which be 4- to 15 fold of the amount use in the previous report .
 in previous report some have report the follow clinical factor to be significant for scintigraphic nonvisualization of axillary node age body weight localization of the tumor and tumor size .
 several explanation exist for instance it be demonstrate that patient with no lsg-visualized node be old than patient with lsg-visualized node suggest that the diffusion rate of the radiotracer be slow in old patient .
 additionally goyal et have report that obese woman bmi be much likely to be negative to sln visualization potentially due to fatty degeneration of the lymph node which reduce the capacity to concentrate the radiotracer .
 however in study neither patient 's age nor bmi significantly correlated with the number of lsg-visualized node .
 the result might also be affect by the type of radioisotope use or the inject dose of radioactive agent .
 moreover in study obese woman bmi be fewer only six .
 regarding the location of tumor patient with nonvisualized node have tumor frequently locate on the upper outer quadrant of breast compare with those with one or much lsg-visualized node .
 in much patient radioisotope be inject subdermally around the tumor .
 accordingly the shine through of the radioactivity from the injection site at upper outer quadrant of the breast may have obscure the axillary node .
 if all patient be inject at periareolar area patient with nonvisualized axillary node might decrease .
 result of this study have show that all patient with lsg-visualized node have sln during surgery p .
 on the other hand six of nine case with nonvisualized node be show to have sln at surgery .
 among the six case two case detect sln in both blue dye- and probe-guided method and four case detect sln in single probe-guided method suggest that even with no lsg-visualized case sln still be detect during surgery which be support by previous report .
 in patient with multiple lsg-visualized node the number of dissect sln be significantly high compare with those with nonvisualized or one visualize node p .
 accordingly we suggest that there be several number of sln leave in patient with multiple lsg-visualized node and slnb should be carry out much carefully .
 moreover patient with multiple lsg-visualized node have show a high rate of histological positive sln p .
 interestingly the number of metastatic node be significantly correlated with that of lsg-visualized node p .
 regarding the sln status in multivariate analysis the number of lsg-visualized node be only the significant independent factor p .
 the reason for this result be not clearly understand .
 however a previous study have suggest that once radiocolloid have accumulate in lymph node retention be associate with the status of macrophage line the nodal sinus .
 accordingly we speculate the following .
 when lymph node metastasis have occur phagocytosis be compromise therefore the migration of colloid to the other node occur .
 eventually the number of lsg-visualized node increase .
 taken together for patient with a number of metastatic node lsg demonstrate much lymph node .
 however far observation must be carry out to validate any explanation include with the technical aspect of the procedure .
 conclusion .
 preoperative lsg be effective to evaluate sln status and the lsg-positive or lsg-negative status be associate with the number of dissect sln .
 moreover the result of lsg potentially reflect the histological nodal status which contribute to possible improvement of successful slnb .
 acknowledgment .
 the author thank george wu university of colorado for advice and revision of the manuscript .
 this be often follow by adjuvant radiotherapy rt which reduce breast cancer mortality after breast-conserving surgery and after mastectomy in those with node-positive disease 1 .
 long-term follow-up of this woman have however reveal that some past regimen lead to an increase risk of death from heart disease particularly year after rt presumably because of some unwanted irradiation of the cardiac structure .
 dose response curve for radiation-induced cardiac mortality have be produce use a radiobiologic model call the relative seriality model in conjunction with datum on long-term cardiac mortality from two randomized trial of rt in which death from ischemic heart disease be report in irradiate and unirradiated patient by breast cancer laterality 2 and 3 .
 this dose response curve be however based on a few cardiac death and be therefore subject to considerable uncertainty .
 they be use by pierce et 4 to estimate normal tissue complication probability of cardiac mortality for seven postmastectomy rt technique .
 however the investigator caution that until additional clinical datum be available to validate predictive model normal tissue complication probability estimate be well use for relative comparison between technique rather than for absolute risk assessment .
 the estimation of the cardiac risk of today 's breast rt require the development of reliable dose response relationship which in turn require detail cardiac dosimetry of past regimen give to woman for whom we have long-term follow-up datum .
 at present few heart dosimetry datum from breast cancer rt be available .
 furthermore it be unknown which quantitative measure of the heart dose or volume be much relevant to subsequent heart disease risk 2 .
 study have use a variety of heart dose specification include the absorb dose 5 and 6 biologically effective dose bed 7 and the cumulative radiation effect an estimate of the biologic radiation dose .
 published datum record the percentage volume of the heart irradiate to various dose be limited .
 such information might however be important in assess radiation-related heart disease because the percentage volume of the heart irradiate to a certain threshold dose might be a well predictor for cardiac death than for instance the mean heart dose or bed .
 information be also need concern the effect of irradiate different cardiac structure especially the coronary artery .
 coronary artery dose have be report for several technique but only for left-sided irradiation 5 and 6 however much study have report only the mean dose to the whole heart .
 in this study a method be develop to estimate cardiac dose .
 we present dose estimate for the whole heart and for the three main coronary artery for technique that be commonly use in the to the .
 information on heart disease rate from randomized trial of breast cancer rt 1 and observational study 9 can be use in combination with this dose to derive dose response relationship .
 this should enable the prediction of the likely cardiac risk of current and future breast cancer rt regimen and facilitate the development of treatment guideline .
 in addition for individual patient those heart be include the radiation beam it should allow the assessment of cardiac risk based on rt plan thus identify woman for whom complex planning technique might be justify to reduce the cardiac dose .
 method and material general method .
 a technique based on virtual simulation and compute tomography ct -based three-dimensional treatment planning have be use to reconstruct rt regimen use in previous decade for treat the breast chest wall and or locoregional lymph node .
 dose distribution be calculate use a treatment planning system helax tms version nucletron veenendaal the netherlands which be accurate to within for dose and 2 mm for position in much situation as show by phantom measurement and 11 .
 approximately consecutive ct planning scan of female patient from the database of a rt department be review .
 the patient be supine with a t-bar arm rest similar to position use for breast cancer rt in previous decade .
 from the scan one representative patient of average weight and height be choose for the detail calculation .
 the ct datum be transfer to a virtual simulation software package exomio release medcom gmbh darmstadt germany .
 the three-dimensional patient surface contour be define by automated density gradient track .
 the heart and coronary artery be contour by a radiation oncologist and review by a radiologist .
 the cranial limit of the heart include the right atrium and exclude the pulmonary trunk ascend aorta and superior vena cava .
 the low contour of the heart be the caudal myocardial border .
 the scan be not contrast enhance .
 therefore on some image the coronary artery be not visible and location be infer use visible reliable landmark include the anterior interventricular leave atrioventricular and right atrioventricular groove .
 because of the short length of the leave main coronary artery contour be include with that of the leave anterior descend lad coronary artery .
 field border beam arrangement and machine parameter for each rt regimen be define use virtual simulation with emphasis on the surface reconstruction function .
 figure 1 illustrate the use of virtual simulation to reconstruct a leave internal mammary chain imc field .
 full-size image 111k virtual simulation of photon leave direct internal mammary a coronal b sagittal and c transverse compute tomography image .
 edges of radiation field show in yellow and heart outline in top right beam 's eye view show position of field red relative to underlie heart and bony bottom middle surface reconstruction image show light field in yellow .
 view within article .
 the treatment parameter and patient and organ-at-risk outline be export to the computerized treatment planning system and dose distribution be calculate .
 the algorithm use for the photon beam be the pencil beam model 12 and 13 and the collapse cone superposition convolution algorithm 13 14 and 15 .
 the former be use for all regimen and the latter for a selection of case in which the tissue inhomogeneity be substantial .
 agreement between algorithm for the calculate heart dose be within for much regimen and within for all regimen .
 for each regimen cardiac dose volume histograms be generate .
 from this estimate of the mean and maximum dose and percentage volume irradiate to different dose be obtain for the heart and for the lad and right and circumflex coronary artery .
 the cardiac dose distribution for several regimen and iridium wire implant be also derived .
 this involve generate scale hard copy of the appropriate ct slice on which isodose distribution for x-ray or iridium wire implant be superimpose .
 manual planning technique incorporating lung correction be use to generate cardiac dose distribution .
 the physical density of lung be take to be g cm3 .
 for the orthovoltage treatment axial ct slice of the superior middle and inferior level of the heart be use .
 for single direct field an apply dose be assume .
 for tangential-pair rt the use of tissue-equivalent bolus between the two applicators be assume .
 the proportion of each cardiac structure include within each isodose line be calculate and use to plot dose volume histograms .
 this be typically based on three ct slice per rt plan .
 for the heart approximately dose point per ct slice be use and for the three coronary artery small volume mean that only one dose point per slice be use .
 for all regimen bed be calculate use the linear quadratic model .
 the estimate ratio for radiation-related heart disease be 1 3 gy 16 and 17 .
 for this calculation an ratio of 2 gy be use .
 for orthovoltage rt a correction factor of be use to account for the enhance biologic effectiveness of low-energy irradiation 7 .
 the brachytherapy regimen reconstructed be typical of those use as a boost to the tumor bed after breast-conserving surgery and external beam rt .
 the likely position of a surgical scar be mark use virtual simulation .
 mid-plane cross-sectional isodose of a standard two-plane five-wire iridium implant be superimpose on scale hard copy of three sagittal ct section one at the expect center of the implant one 2 cm medial and one 2 cm lateral to this point .
 the iridium wire be 6 cm long and position cm apart and cm beneath the skin .
 specific technique reconstructed .
 the rt detail for trial of rt for early breast cancer be collate use trial publication and protocol textbook 18 19 and 21 and discussion with radiotherapist who have work in various country from onwards .
 use this information rt technique commonly use to treat the chest wall breast and associate lymphatic be reconstructed .
 description of the target volume clinical definition of the field border field arrangement and beam energy be give in table 1 and illustrate in the focus-to-skin distance be cm for all field wedge and compensator be not use .
 the tangential pair beam be oppose .
 table .
 radiotherapy technique reconstructed for cardiac dose estimation .
 targetfield arrangementdefinition of field bordersbeam energycomments chest wall breast a b tangential pair 18 19 and superiorsternal notch6 mvtissue equivalent bolus between applicators for kv inferior1 cm below inframammary medialmidline or match to internal mammary chain kv lateralmidaxillary line chest wall c direct anterior 19 and 22 superiorinferior border of supraclavicular fossa electron inferiorxyphoid sternal junction medialmidline lateralmidaxillary line chest wall and internal mammary node d tangential pair 19 superiorsternal notch6 mvmedial tangential beam angle downward inferior1 cm below inframammary medial1 cm to contralateral side of midline lateralmidaxillary line chest wall and internal mammary node mcwhirter field e tangential pair 23 superiorsternal kvtissue equivalent bolus between applicators inferior1 cm below inframammary fold medialsternal border on contralateral side lateralmidaxillary line internal mammery node f direct anterior 18 and 24 superiorsternal notch6 mvusual size 17 6 cm inferiorxyphoid sternal kv lateral6 cm from medial border internal mammary node similar to f direct anterior 19 superiorsternal electronsusual size 17 7 cm inferiorxyphoid sternal junction medial1 cm contralateral to midline lateral7 cm from medial border mastectomy scar boostdirect anterior 25 and 26 514 cm strip cover the approximate position of mastectomy of field approximate electron kv brachytherapy 27 and 28 two plane five-wire iridium implant192ir supraclavicular fossa g direct anterior 18 and 19 superiorcricothyroid groove6 mv inferiormiddle of second costal size cm beam tilt 15 laterally medial1 cm to contralateral side of midline lateralcrosses acromioclavicular joint posterior axilla h direct posterior 19 superiorspine of scapula6 mvlead use to shape medial border inferiorinferior border of supraclavicular fossa medialfollows the lateral wall of bony thorax lateralbisects the humeral head .
 full-size table .
 regimen a h illustrate in .
 view within article .
 full-size image 83k a h radiotherapy technique reconstructed for cardiac dose estimation .
 see table 1 for additional detail include definition of field border .
 imc internal mammary chain .
 view within article .
 variation in patient anatomy .
 two technique be reconstructed on consecutive contemporary breast cancer patient on the ct planning database .
 this patient be angle on a breast board unlike the representative patient who be position flat .
 this difference mean there be small systematic difference in dose between this patient and the representative patient .
 the interpatient variability however should be comparable .
 direct anterior leave and right imc field and leave tangential irradiation be reconstructed on consecutive patient .
 right tangential irradiation be reconstructed on 5 consecutive patient because little interpatient variation in heart dose be expect for this regimen .
 result dose estimate for the representative patient .
 the mean dose to the coronary artery and the maximum dose mean dose and mean bed to the heart for the representative patient be summarize in table appendix table 1 to 8 online only give additional detail include the percentage volume of each structure irradiate to various dose and the mean bed and maximum dose .
 table .
 heart and coronary artery dose from breast radiotherapy regimen .
 heartladrcacca mean dose gy maximum dose gy mean bed gy2 mean dose gy mean dose gy mean dose gy targetfield arrangementbeam energytypical dose and fractionationleftrightleftrightleftrightleftrightleftrightleftright chest wall breast a tangential pair6 gy in gy in kv42 gy in .
 chest wall breast medial border match to internal mammary field b tangential pair6 gy in gy in kv42 gy in .
 chest wall c direct gy in .
 chest wall and internal mammary node d e tangential pair6 gy in gy in kv36 gy in .
 internal mammary node f direct anterior6 gy in gy in gy in gy in .
 mastectomy scar boostdirect gy in gy in gy in 5116511211111 gy172211 .
 supraclavicular fossa g direct anterior6 gy in gy in .
 posterior axilla h direct posterior6 gy in gy in .
 full-size table .
 abbreviation lad leave anterior descend coronary artery rca right coronary artery cca circumflex coronary artery bed biologically effective dose .
 bed calculate use ratio of .
 arm elevate on t-bar rest .
 regimen a h illustrate in .
 dose for low-energy regimen give to near gray because of uncertainty involve in manual planning all other dose give to 1 decimal place .
 view within article .
 heart dose from chest wall or breast irradiation .
 for breast or chest wall rt 2a c the mean heart dose vary between and 14 gy for left-sided and between and 6 gy for right-sided rt .
 the large dose result from orthovoltage irradiation .
 for example for standard leave tangential rt the mean heart dose be gy for megavoltage and 14 gy for orthovoltage irradiation .
 this be partly explain by lateral scatter and partly by the depth dose characteristic of an orthovoltage beam .
 to deliver 42 gy at the mid-plane point on the central axis a give dose of approximately 42 gy multiply by be need from each tangential beam .
 the result dose distribution within the breast chest wall and within normal tissue nearby be inhomogeneous with hot spot of up to of tumor dose 53 gy within the heart for left-sided rt .
 where tangential beam be match to a direct imc field the medial tangential border be 6 cm from the midline .
 the heart be therefore several centimeters from the posterior field edge and receive low radiation dose from the tangential beam .
 the mean heart dose be 5 gy for left-sided and 1 gy for right-sided irradiation .
 for wide tangential rt the medial border be 1 cm contralateral to the midline .
 hence relatively large heart volume be irradiate gy be receive by and of the heart for left- and right-sided irradiation respectively appendix table 1 and 5 and mean heart dose be 14 gy and 9 gy for left- and right-sided irradiation respectively .
 for irradiation of the leave breast or chest wall the part of the heart receive the great dose be the anterior surface of the leave ventricle .
 the maximum heart dose be between and gy for leave tangential irradiation and gy for leave electron irradiation .
 full-size image 42k axial compute tomography section show dose distribution from leave tangential pair radiotherapy .
 isodose line correspond to percentage of give dose .
 three main coronary artery be outline with 1 cm margin add to each .
 view within article .
 heart dose from imc irradiation .
 the imc be locate anteriorly in the intercostal space close to the heart .
 therefore imc rt generally lead to great mean heart dose than irradiation of other target particularly for left-sided treatment .
 imc rt use either direct anterior or wide tangential field deliver a mean heart dose of gy for left-sided and gy for right-sided rt with the great dose result from leave direct anterior 6-mv irradiation .
 the heart volume irradiate be also considerable particularly for direct anterior photon field which deliver gy to around and around of the heart for left- and right-sided field respectively .
 in contrast direct electron imc irradiation result in a low mean heart dose of around 2 gy and low heart volume of around receive gy for both left- and right-sided rt owing to the rapid decrease in dose beyond the isodose .
 full-size image 74k axial compute tomography section show dose distribution from a right and b leave 6-mv direct anterior internal mammary field .
 isodose line correspond to percentage of give dose .
 three main coronary artery be outline with 1 cm margin add to each .
 view within article .
 direct anterior megavoltage imc rt result in irradiation of different part of the heart for left- and right-sided treatment .
 for a right-sided field dose of 35 gy be receive by the right atrium but for a left-sided field similar dose be receive by the leave ventricle .
 where direct anterior imc and match tangential irradiation be use together much of the total heart dose originate from the imc field .
 for example if gy be deliver to the chest wall and imc use 6-mv beam the imc field would contribute gy and the chest wall field gy heart dose give a total mean heart dose of gy .
 heart dose from scar boost irradiation .
 mean heart dose from boost irradiation of the surgical scar be gy for both left- and right-sided rt .
 left-sided photon beam deliver 1 gy mean heart dose whereas the leave electron beam deliver only gy because of the rapid decrease in the depth dose .
 iridium wire implant be use in previous decade to deliver boost dose of gy to the scar 27 and 28 .
 the localized deposition of dose from this implant mean that only a few percent of tumor dose 1 gy be receive by the heart for left-sided irradiation .
 the heart dose from boost rt be small relative to the dose from the chest wall or breast rt because of the low give dose .
 for example a patient who receive gy mv tangential leave chest wall rt follow by gy electron scar boost would receive a total mean heart dose of gy gy from chest wall and gy from boost irradiation .
 an important determinant of the heart dose from boost rt be the scar position relative to the heart which be likely to vary from patient to patient .
 the dose present here illustrate the relative magnitude of the cardiac dose from different boost technique and be useful for comparison between technique .
 however the dose can vary substantially between individual patient depending on the boost position .
 the magnitude of this uncertainty be assess below in the section variability in boost position .
 heart dose from supraclavicular fossa and axillary irradiation .
 the supraclavicular fossa scf and axillary field be distant from the heart which receive scatter radiation alone .
 the mean dose be gy for left-sided field .
 the right-sided scf and axillary field be even far from the heart therefore the cardiac dose be likely to be low .
 coronary artery dose .
 the radiation dose receive by each cardiac structure be mainly determine by location relative to the treatment field s .
 the lad coronary artery on the anterior aspect of the heart be near the leave breast and leave imc and for all technique use to treat this target the lad dose exceed the heart dose .
 for example leave mv tangential irradiation deliver a mean heart dose of 5 gy compare with a mean lad dose of gy and part of the lad receive gy 3 and appendix table 2 .
 the lad be in the penumbra of the leave direct photon imc field and receive a mean dose of gy .
 in contrast for the right-sided field it receive a mean dose of 2 gy from scatter radiation .
 the right coronary artery be locate anteriorly to the right of midline .
 for much technique it be exclude from the radiation field .
 for direct anterior imc irradiation it be include in the right-sided imc field but not in the leave .
 the mean dose be 24 gy for right-sided and gy for left-sided irradiation .
 the circumflex coronary artery be locate in the posterior myocardium and generally receive low dose than either the lad or right coronary artery .
 the mean circumflex dose from tangential rt be 8 gy .
 dose of 1 gy be deliver by direct electron chest wall and scar boost irradiation .
 combination of different regimen .
 if a woman be treat with much than one regimen direct imc and match tangential breast field or tangential breast plus boost rt the mean dose from each regimen can be add to calculate the total mean dose to each cardiac structure .
 for full dosimetric information include the percentage volume of each structure irradiate to different dose or bed for combination of different regimen the describe method can be use to reconstruct different regimen on the same dose plan .
 patient-to-patient variability in heart dose .
 the dose in table 2 and appendix table 1 8 be estimate for a representative patient of average weight and build .
 the dose receive by any individual patient will vary from this depending on individual characteristic include breast size extent of breast surgery and sternal length and on the circumstance of rt the linear accelerator use .
 this source of variability would in much case apply to any method of estimate cardiac dose retrospectively .
 the magnitude of likely effect on cardiac dose be describe below .
 variation in patient anatomy .
 for tangential pair and direct imc irradiation reconstructed on consecutive patient on the ct planning database the mean heart dose vary from 1 to 2 gy coefficient of variation mean divide by standard deviation cv for right-sided and from 2 to 4 gy cv for left-sided tangential pair rt and from 5 to 15 gy cv for right-sided and from to 29 gy cv for left-sided imc rt .
 thus for each regimen there be some interpatient variability in heart dose but there be also substantial variation between different regimen .
 full-size image 13k variability in mean heart dose receive by patient take from compute tomography database of a radiotherapy center in united kingdom .
 left and right internal mammary chain imc and leave tangential irradiation be reconstructed on consecutive patient .
 right tangential irradiation be reconstructed on 5 consecutive patient .
 heart dose for each patient represent by black dot .
 view within article .
 presence of breast tissue .
 all dose in table 2 and appendix table 1 8 be for a patient with breast tissue present .
 irradiation use a direct electron field be usually perform after mastectomy and tangential pair and external beam scar boost irradiation be use after either mastectomy or breast-conserving surgery .
 this technique be reconstructed on the representative patient with breast tissue on the irradiate side both include and exclude from the dose calculation .
 the decrease in the mean heart dose cause by the presence of breast tissue be and gy for all photon technique tangential pair and scar boost irradiation .
 for electron field the presence of breast tissue decrease the mean heart dose by and gy for leave and right electron chest wall field respectively and by and gy for leave and right electron scar boost irradiation respectively .
 variation in patient position .
 cardiac dose can be affect by patient treatment position .
 factor likely to affect cardiac dose be those that change either the thoracic and therefore cardiac position relative to the radiation beam thorax angle on a breast-board or flat on the bed or those that influence the field border .
 for representative patient the thoracic position be similar to that use in previous decade for imc breast chest wall and scf rt .
 for axillary irradiation some previous patient be treat prone but this different position be unlikely to materially affect the heart dose because axillary rt usually deliver scatter cardiac irradiation alone .
 for tangential irradiation the ipsilateral arm position affect the field border 29 .
 right breast chest wall rt mostly involve only scatter cardiac dose .
 for leave tangential irradiation the effect of a change in arm position be study use a camera-based contour system qados sandhurst united kingdom .
 left tangential 6-mv rt be reconstructed on a volunteer first with both arm above head support by a t-bar arm rest and second with ipsilateral arm abduct to and contralateral arm by side .
 the heart dose be 2 gy with the arm in the t-bar position and gy for the arm position .
 difficulty identify field border .
 use the virtual simulator precise identification of landmark sternal notch and xyphoid sternal junction be subject to some uncertainty .
 the effect of this on the mean heart dose be quantify by reconstruct tangential pair and direct imc fieldsfirst with the field s in the standard position second move 1 cm superiorly and third move 1 cm inferiorly .
 table 3 show that the difference in mean heart dose that result from such movement be usually and always .
 table .
 mean heart dose for breast radiotherapy regimen effect of variability in field position on heart dose .
 mean heart dose gy field s in standard positionfield s move superiorly by 1 cmfield s move inferiorly by 1 cm targetfield arrangementleftrightleftrightleftright chest wall breasttangential .
 chest wall and internal mammary chaintangential internal mammary chaindirect .
 full-size table .
 variability likely to be minimal because dose mainly from scatter radiation .
 view within article .
 variability in boost position .
 and iridium wire boost be reconstructed first centered on the nipple second move 2 cm superiorly and third 2 cm inferiorly .
 table 4 show the result difference in mean heart dose .
 in reality the position of the scar and therefore of the boost well vary much than 2 cm therefore the heart dose measurement be subject to a high degree of uncertainty .
 in general the far inferior the boost the great the heart dose .
 however the heart dose from boost irradiation be always low relative to other technique because of the low give dose of gy .
 table .
 mean heart dose for left-sided scar boost radiotherapy effect of variability in boost position on heart dose .
 mean heart dose gy techniquetypical dose and fractionationfield or implant in standard positionfield or implant move superiorly by 2 cmfield or implant move inferiorly by 2 cm brachytherapy use 192ir wire direct anterior gy in .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 use of different model of treatment unit .
 for axillary and scf irradiation two different make of linear accelerator with nominally the same energy 6 mv be use .
 this field be choose because they be usually distant from the heart therefore the heart dose be largely from scatter irradiation originate in the machine treatment head and can vary accord to the machine use .
 the mean heart dose vary between gy for supraclavicular and between gy for axillary field .
 thus the use of different rt machine make little difference to the heart dose .
 to enable a comparison between different regimen for each beam energy the datum from only one machine be use .
 effect of change source-to-skin distance for beam .
 direct imc and tangential pair field be set up use source-to-skin distance of and cm .
 this difference in the source-to-skin distance result in difference in the mean heart dose of only gy for imc and gy for tangential pair irradiation .
 discussion .
 we have present dose estimate for breast cancer rt regimen that be in widespread use worldwide from the to the .
 there be considerable variation in the cardiac dose accord to the regimen use .
 for example 6-mv direct imc rt deliver 17-gy heart dose and 25-gy lad dose whereas electron imc irradiation deliver 3-gy heart dose and 6-gy lad dose while still deliver therapeutic tumor dose .
 such difference be likely to have result in a wide variation in the cardiac dose worldwide during the past few decade owing to the diversity in rt practice .
 this will be useful when deriving dose response relationship .
 estimate include coronary artery and heart dose for a wide variety of different regimen and be consistent with the few publish ct-based estimate .
 the technique available for comparison be wide and standard leave tangential irradiation 22 and and direct imc irradiation 2 and 24 .
 the estimate of irradiate heart volume be usually consistent with estimate to within of volume and be never much than .
 table .
 comparison of measure and publish cardiac dose estimate .
 investigatortechnique field descriptionbeam energylateralitymeasure of dose volumepublished estimate of volume present estimate of volume gyenes 1997 wide tangential pair to breast and internal mammary of volume of heart receive of dose2523 tangential pair6 mvleftpercentage of volume of heart receive of .
 gagliardi 1996 2 direct internal mammary chain of volume of heart receive of dose5544 direct internal mammary chain of volume of heart receive of .
 full-size table .
 janjan et 5 calculate point cardiac dose rather than mean dose as in present study therefore the result be not comparable and we omit them from this comparison .
 also krueger et 6 report heart and coronary artery dose from seven left-sided postmastectomy regimen that be mostly use around the year they all differ from the regimen reconstructed in this study which be largely historical .
 reported dose estimate from publish dose volume histograms and convert from dose in equivalent 2-gy fraction thus a great degree of uncertainty be present .
 view within article .
 source of variability for a give regimen .
 the reconstruction of any rt regimen be inevitably subject to several source of variability .
 this study have characterize the principal source of dose variability for virtual simulation and ct planning of breast cancer rt .
 the major source of error in estimate the cardiac dose for a give individual be likely to be variation in patient anatomy .
 individual dose plan and information on anatomy patient outline be rarely available before the .
 therefore when estimate cardiac dose for group of patient treat in early trial of rt for breast cancer the use of dose estimate for a representative patient of average weight and build might give the good indication of the cardiac dose receive from particular regimen .
 some uncertainty exist in locate the three main coronary artery because arterial contrast be not use for ct planning .
 however this artery be visible on some ct slice and course tend to follow the interventricular and atrioventricular groove which be identifiable on ct .
 in addition the accuracy of ct-based estimate be limited by normal movement of the heart lung and thoracic cage .
 this movement will tend to slightly change the position of the heart relative to the radiation beam .
 however the ct planning scan use for this reconstruction be acquire during several minute include many breathing cycle and the original rt would also have be deliver during several minute .
 therefore the ct image be likely to illustrate the change position of the heart relative to the treatment field during the original rt thus average the variation in dose cause by such change .
 for some regimen heart dose be affect by patient position .
 treatment position for tangential irradiation in the to vary .
 in some region the ipsilateral arm be elevate use a t-bar rest in other it be abduct to for leave tangential rt lower the ipsilateral arm from the t-bar position to change the mean heart dose from 2 to gy in volunteer which represent a increase .
 similar systematic change in heart dose have be report for 11 other patient 29 .
 for representative patient t-bar position 6-mv leave tangential irradiation deliver a gy mean heart dose .
 if she have undergo irradiation in the arm position heart dose might have be around 8 gy assume a dose increase for a change from the t-bar to arm position .
 we speculate that the mean lad dose have be great because it be close to the radiation beam .
 the right and circumflex coronary artery be distant from the tangential beam and dose be probably little affect by arm position .
 dose estimate for leave tangential irradiation be applicable to patient treat in the t-bar position but be likely to systematically underestimate the heart and lad dose for patient irradiate with the ipsilateral arm low at .
 irradiation of lad coronary artery .
 for much breast cancer rt regimen the anterior part of the heart include the lad coronary artery receive the great radiation dose .
 the lad dose be generally great than the dose to the whole heart or the two other coronary artery .
 the distribution of atherosclerosis in the general population be lad right coronary artery and 15 circumflex coronary artery 31 .
 therefore the great radiation dose be receive by the coronary artery that appear to be much prone to atherosclerosis .
 blockage of the lad by atherosclerosis can lead to leave ventricular infarction .
 hence radiation-induced damage to this artery might have contribute to the excess cardiac mortality see after some past breast cancer rt regimen .
 coronary arterial damage after rt have be assess directly use myocardial perfusion imaging which assess myocardial ischemia .
 several study have show an excess of anterior cardiac perfusion defect in area of expect high dose between 6 month and year after rt for leave breast cancer 31 32 33 and 34 .
 one study 35 reveal an increase in myocardial perfusion defect in the region supply by the lad 6 month after leave tangential pair rt but not in the region supply by the other coronary artery .
 it be unclear whether this damage lead to any clinical consequence or to the excess in death from heart disease see after rt .
 need for dose response relationship .
 to reliably assess the cardiac risk of current and future rt regimen relationship between the cardiac dose and subsequent cardiac morbidity and mortality be need .
 this study have successfully quantify the cardiac dose and volume irradiate for much common breast cancer rt regimen use between the and and demonstrate a wide range of cardiac dose .
 this estimate be derived to enable the development of cardiac dose response relationship use datum from the early breast cancer trialists collaborative group trial and datum from other woman for whom information on rt technique tumor laterality and outcome be available .
 acknowledgment .
 this work arise out of involvement with the early breast cancer trialists collaborative group .
 we thank the early breast cancer trialists collaborative group secretariat and many collaborator for comment and also gratefully acknowledge professor david dodwell niall moore professor john hopewell giovanna gagliardi and sir richard peto for help with this work .
 the ability of the translation machinery to load ribosome onto mrna via the m7gtp cap be a primary point of control and stratify mrna into those that be cap dependent and highly regulate from cap-independent mrna that utilize an internal ribosome entry site ires within the 5 untranslated region thereby bypass translation inhibition during hypoxia .
 cap-dependent mrna acquire ribosome and initiate translation through interaction with the cap-dependent initiation complex eif4f comprise of the 5 cap-binding protein eif4e scaffold protein eif4g and atp-dependent helicase eif4a .
 formation of eif4f interaction with mrna and ability to facilitate translation initiation be control by the eif4e sequestering protein of which 4e-bp1 be the major form .
 4e-bp1 be maintain in the inactive hyperphosphorylated state by the kinase mtor but be activate during stress such as hypoxia when mtor activity be reduce connolly et and holcik and sonenberg .
 hypophosphorylated activate 4e-bp1 sequesters eif4e thereby suppress cap-dependent mrna translation and promote translation of ires-containing mrna .
 many ires mrna be think to initiate with a subset of factor mediate by eif4g-ires interaction .
 importantly some cellular mrna can utilize a dual mechanism of initiation cap or ires this include those that orchestrate angiogenesis vegf-a hypoxia response transcription factor hif1 and inhibition of apoptosis bcl2 among other .
 tumor progression require the development of a tumor vasculature which be generally induce in response to tumor hypoxia through a process know as an angiogenic switch .
 tumor angiogenesis be rate limit for tumor growth and regulate at multiple level of gene control include mrna translation .
 angiogenesis be also think to be dynamic as tumor volume expand hypoxia increase and trigger additional vascularization through elevate expression of vegf and other proangiogenic factor partially restore oxygen to the grow tumor edge which be repeat as the tumor continue to grow .
 here we show that 4e-bp1 and eif4g be strongly overexpressed in the majority of human large advance tumor of the breast know as locally advance breast cancer labc .
 use breast cancer cell and tumor model we show that together overexpressed 4e-bp1 and eif4g function as a hypoxia-activated switch to facilitate cap-independent mrna translation promote translation of ires-containing mrna that promote tumor survival and angiogenesis .
 this datum suggest that in addition to tumor model with overexpression of eif4e and increase cap-dependent mrna translation a second translational control pathway exist that stimulate cap-independent mrna translation of select mrna involve in tumorigenesis .
 result expression level of cap-dependent translation initiation factor in breast cancer .
 we first examine by immunohistochemistry ihc the expression level of key factor that comprise or regulate the cap-dependent mrna initiation complex in normal breast specimen and tumor biopsy of invasive ductal carcinoma the much common form of breast cancer in woman .
 all antibody use in this study be optimized for ihc and there be no background staining if the primary antibody be omit datum not show .
 immunoblot analysis of equal amount of protein extract from normal breast epithelium and a posttreatment labc surgical tumor specimen demonstrate strong and specific binding to respective target .
 eif4e level be moderately elevate in and strongly elevate in of tumor of 1 to 5 cm in size t1-t2 tumor figure 1a and table s1 in the supplemental data available with this article online and do not significantly increase thereafter with far increase tumor size 5 cm t3 p .
 thus eif4e be moderately elevate in much than half of the small invasive ductal carcinoma and strongly elevate in roughly one-quarter of them .
 surprisingly 4e-bp1 a negative regulator of cap-dependent mrna translation be markedly overexpressed in tumor 5 cm in size increase from among small tumor to in large tumor 5 cm t3 p and of labc tumor p figure 1a and table s1 .
 initiation factor eif4g be also strongly increase in labc tumor compare to small tumor t1 figure 1a and table s1 p .
 a future report will present clinical association between overexpression of 4e-bp1 and eif4g with tumor histological-grade lymph node involvement disease progression and other disease parameter .
 level of initiation factor eif4a be unchanged between normal and tumor breast tissue .
 we do not far pursue study involve eif4e because it 's increase expression be not associate with large tumor size .
 full-size image 132k high-quality image 1245k figure representative level of protein synthesis factor in breast tumor specimen examined in this study .
 a ihc analysis of representative specimen .
 normal breast epithelium t1 and t3 labc tumor be show .
 data be representative of patient specimen report in table s1 use three core punch per specimen .
 b immunoblot analysis demonstrate specificity of antibody binding .
 equal protein amount of fresh normal breast epithelial tissue and posttreatment surgical resection of a t3 tumor be show .
 c ihc of eif4a level .
 representative normal breast epithelium and t3 tumor specimen be show .
 view within article .
 we not determine 4e-bp1 phosphorylation status in tumor cell by ihc due to unacceptable background staining and variability due to tissue processing difference .
 such staining have be report by other but generally without match datum on 4e-bp1 abundance kremer et zhou et castellvi et petricoin et and rojo et .
 however decrease mtor ser2448 phosphorylation a surrogate for loss of mtor activity determine in hypoxic region of tumor by ihc also suggest that 4e-bp1 be likely activate dephosphorylated in the hypoxic growing edge of tumor kaper et and datum not show suggest a dynamic role for mtor 4e-bp1 activity in cancer development .
 the large labc tumor specimen study here be highly hypoxic as show by increased abundance of hif1 figure s1a .
 increased expression of 4e-bp1 and eif4g promotes translation of vegf mrna during hypoxia .
 the human breast cancer specimen examine above suggest a significant association between overexpression of 4e-bp1 and eif4g with large tumor size in breast cancer but address a possible function .
 to determine the function of increase expression of 4e-bp1 and eif4g in protein synthesis during hypoxia angiogenesis and tumor formation a panel of transform invasive ductal carcinoma cell line be use .
 the line consist of cell immortalize human breast epithelial cell cell early stage-derived primary breast cancer cell and bt474 cell late stage-derived highly transform breast cancer cell .
 immunoblot analysis of equal amount of protein which be the same as equal number of cell demonstrate 2 fold increase level of eif4e and up to 3 fold high level of eif4g with increase transformation similar to that of human tumor specimen .
 4e-bp1 level be 3 fold low in highly transform bt474 cell compare to the little transform cell line but retain rapamycin-sensitive activation hypophosphorylation .
 there be no change in other core member of the cap-dependent initiation complex include eif4a and poly a binding protein datum not show or of -tubulin protein show .
 we therefore use this breast cancer cell line to examine the functional importance of increase expression of 4e-bp1 in translation angiogenesis and tumor formation .
 full-size image 141k high-quality image figure analysis of global protein synthesis and vegf-specific mrna translation with elevated 4e-bp1 and eif4g level in increasingly transformed cell line .
 a and b immunoblot comparison of immortalize cell transform cell and transform bt474 cell for expression level of identify factor .
 cell be treat with rapamycin at g ml for 4 hr .
 c overall protein synthesis activity with overexpression of wild-type or mutant 4e-bp1 .
 global protein synthetic rate be determine by 35s-methionine labeling under normal or hypoxic condition o2 for 24 hr all p student 's t test two side .
 d endogenous secrete vegf protein level under normoxic n and hypoxic hx condition in cell line determine by elisa normalize to equal level of vegf mrna .
 e vegf mrna level in bt474 cell under normoxic or 24 hr hypoxic o2 mrna level be determine by rt-pcr .
 result for other cell line be similar datum not show .
 f gene silence of eif4g be silence in bt474 cell with an shrna or a nonspecific control shrna express lentivirus vector to level find in cell .
 level of eif4g and eif4a in and bt474 cell be determine by immunoblot .
 g vegf synthesis dependence on eif4g .
 vegf protein level be determine by elisa in bt474 cell normalize to equal mrna level as show in e .
 h overall protein synthesis level with eif4g reduction .
 level of protein synthesis be determine by 35s-methionine incorporation after eif4g silence under normoxic or 24 hr hypoxic condition in vector control and 4e-bp1 overexpressing cell .
 data in all study be derived from at least three independent experiment .
 standard error of the mean be calculate from at least three independent experiment and all result achieve p pair student 's t test .
 view within article .
 bt474 and breast cancer cell be engineer to stably overexpress by 4 fold similar to human labc tumor based on ihc datum not show a wild-type ha-epitope tag 4e-bp1 or a deletion mutant 4e-bp1 that bind eif4e .
 4e-bp1 fail to enhance cap-independent mrna translation during hypoxia .
 overexpression of wild-type or mutant 4e-bp1 have little effect on overall normoxic o2 protein synthesis rate in all cell line when compare equal protein amount .
 in bt474 cell which be largely resistant to moderate but not strong o2 24 hr hypoxia downregulation of protein synthesis be render much sensitive by overexpression of wild-type 4e-bp1 but not by 4e-bp1 .
 however overexpression of 4e-bp1 in hypoxic bt474 cell upregulated vegf mrna translation by 5 fold compare to fold for the control with no increase for 4e-bp1 when normalize to equal vegf mrna level .
 vegf mrna level be increase in bt474 cell under hypoxia regardless of wild-type or mutant 4e-bp1 protein overexpression .
 similar vegf mrna result be find in and cell datum not show .
 wild-type 4e-bp1 overexpression increase vegf-specific mrna translation during hypoxia by fold in cell and only slightly in cell possibly due to the low level of eif4g in this little transform cell .
 indeed stable reduction of bt474 eif4g level by gene silence to that of immortalize cell eliminate the strong hypoxia-induced translation of vegf mrna in 4e-bp1 overexpressing bt474 cell figure 2g p but only reduce overall protein synthesis by at normal oxygen eif4g silence do not far impair protein synthesis during hypoxia o2 24 hr compare to control nonsilenced cell .
 hif1 mrna translation during hypoxia be also much strongly stimulate by overexpression of wild-type 4e-bp1 in bt474 than cell figure s1b .
 bcl2 expression be slightly 2- to 3 fold increase and be sustain in 4e-bp1 overexpressing cell during hypoxia figure s1b consistent with this result .
 elevated level of 4e-bp1 comprise a hypoxia-activated translation switch .
 increased expression of 4e-bp1 provide a switch from cap-dependent to cap-independent ires-mediated mrna translation which be activate by hypoxia .
 to investigate this possibility bt474 cell overexpressing wild-type or 4e-bp1 be transfected with plasmid express bicistronic mrna reporter contain a cap-dependent renilla luciferase and a downstream firefly luciferase control by either the vegf-a hif1 or emcv ires or a cap-dependent 5ncr sequence describe previously .
 translation rate during normoxia and hypoxia be determine by quantify the level of the two different form of luciferase normalize to equal mrna level .
 increased level of wild-type 4e-bp1 stimulate translation direct by the vegf ires by 5 fold under hypoxia while impair cap-dependent translation by fold .
 proof of cap-dependent and hif1 or vegf-ires-dependent translation by this element be show by control study in which monocistronic mrna be express with and without a 5 stable hairpin upstream of either element or with deletion of the ires figure s1c .
 hypoxia also do not alter the size of the monocistroinic mrna datum not show .
 the hairpin block luciferase translation from the cap-dependent but not the ires element under normoxic and hypoxic condition whereas deletion of the ires block luciferase translation during hypoxia .
 full-size image high-quality image 845k figure overexpression of 4e-bp1 and eif4g confers a cap-dependent to ires-dependent mrna translation switch .
 a c bicistronic vector contain a cap-dependent 5ncr and cap-independent ires for a vegf b hif1 or c emcv be test for cap-dependent and cap-independent translation by use a dual luciferase reporter system under normoxic n and 24 hr hypoxic hx o2 condition .
 quantification of result express as the rate of ires cap-mediated translation be tabulate as show on the right .
 all result be p control versus experimental group determine by student 's t test two side .
 d vector express the cap-dependent rfp and ires-dependent gfp bicistronic reporter mrna in hypoxic control and 4e-bp1 bt474 cell visualize by confocal microscopy and quantify from ten independent field of cell .
 e integrity of cap-dependent initiation complex under normoxia and increase hypoxia with overexpression of 4e-bp1 protein .
 complexes be purify by cap chromatography and protein detect by immunoblot analysis .
 lower resolution sds-page be use to concentrate all phosphoforms of 4e-bp1 associate with eif4e for well quantitation .
 typical result be show of representative study from at least three independent experiment .
 f vegf expression level during normoxia o2 24 hr hypoxia at 5 or o2 level be determine by elisa of secrete factor normalize to equal vegf mrna level as describe in the legend to figure .
 standard error of the mean be calculate from at least three independent experiment and all result achieve p pair student 's t test .
 view within article .
 increased level of 4e-bp1 also stimulate hif1 ires-directed translation by 3 fold and that of the emcv ires a control viral ires by 8 fold while impair respective cap-dependent translation activity .
 bcl2 ires translation be sustain but not increase during hypoxia inhibition of protein synthesis by 4e-bp1 with eif4g overexpression figure s2a and no alternatively splice mrna form be detect datum not show .
 to directly visualize the translation switch from cap to ires mediate by 4e-bp1 and eif4g vector control and 4e-bp1 overexpressing bt474 cell be transfected with a plasmid express a bicistronic mrna in which the luciferase open reading frame be replace with a cap-dependent red fluorescent protein rfp and a vegf ires-dependent green fluorescent protein gfp .
 compared to vector control cell 4e-bp1 cell express a 4 fold increase level of vegf ires-dependent gfp compare to cap-dependent rfp under hypoxia o2 24 hr figure 3d right panel .
 increased expression of 4e-bp1 therefore act as a hypoxia-inducible switch promote cap-independent over cap-dependent translation .
 increased 4e-bp1 level trigger disassembly of cap-dependent initiation complexes with only moderate oxygen depletion .
 the integrity of cap-dependent initiation complex be investigate under condition of increase deprivation of oxygen in control and 4e-bp1 overexpressing cell .
 protein associate with eif4e by retention on m7gtp-sepharose be analyzed by immunoblot analysis .
 in control cell cap-dependent initiation complex be incompletely disrupt by 4e-bp1 displacement of eif4e at o2 and largely disrupt at o2 .
 in cell overexpressing 4e-bp1 initiation complex be almost fully disrupt at o2 .
 increased expression of 4e-bp1 therefore decrease by 5 fold the level of o2 deprivation require to provoke strong disassembly of cap-initiation complex .
 when normalize to equal vegf-a mrna level 4e-bp1 overexpressing cell increase vegf protein synthesis by fold at oxygen deprivation o2 than require in control cell o2 to yield a small 2 fold increase .
 increased expression of 4e-bp1 and eif4g promotes ires-dependent vegf mrna translation and tumor vascularization in a tumor angiogenesis model .
 we examine the effect of 4e-bp1 eif4g on vegf expression and tumor vascularization in an angiogenesis model system .
 bt474 cell overexpressing vector control wild-type or 4e-bp1 be implant into the chick chorioallantoic membrane cam of the chick embryo and allow to grow for 7 day figure 4a upper panel .
 angiogenesis of the cam by this time be a measurement of tumor-directed vascularization .
 cam tumor derived from 4e-bp1 overexpressing bt474 cell show a 3 fold high density of vascularization compare to vector control or the 4e-bp1 mutant figure 4b p .
 result obtain use cell engineer to express similarly increase level of 4e-bp1 but which express low level of eif4g show a much modest increase in tumor angiogenesis figure 4a and 4b versus p .
 there be no significant effect on angiogenesis in cell .
 full-size image 97k high-quality image 871k figure overexpression of 4e-bp1 promotes tumor angiogenesis vascular permeabilization and vegf expression .
 a representative tumor grow in the cam be show photograph in situ corresponding to vector control overexpression of vector alone wild-type 4e-bp1 or the 4e-bp1 mutant for bt474 cell only .
 b the vascular area of tumor grow in cam from cell line with or without overexpression of wild-type 4e-bp1 be determine as describe in the experimental procedure .
 c morphometric analysis of tumor vasculature in cam study make visible by immunofluorescence staining with fluorescein isothiocyanate fitc -labeled lycopersicon lectin vector lab follow by fluorescence photography .
 d immunoblot analysis of vegf-a protein level and 4e-bp1 level by high-resolution sds-page obtain from equal amount of the bt474 cam tumor protein .
 e tumor mass weight of cam-derived tumor with increase expression of wild-type 4e-bp1 or 4e-bp1 mutant in bt474 cell only .
 cam tumor weight be quantify and mean value with sem shown derived from at least three independent experiment .
 standard error of the mean be calculate from at least three independent experiment and all result achieve p pair student 's t test .
 view within article .
 in situ staining with fitc-tomato lectin to visualize the luminal surface of blood vessel demonstrate that vessel in tumor overexpressing wild-type 4e-bp1 be significantly large much irregularly shape and leaky compare to that of vector control tumor .
 because much vegf in the cam tumor at this time be tumor derived vegf-a level in the tumor cam be determine by immunoblot analysis of equal amount of cam protein lysate demonstrate a fold increase in vegf-a level from wild-type 4e-bp1 sample .
 high-resolution electrophoretic analysis of 4e-bp1 protein indicate that be in the hypophosphorylated activate form in cam tumor consistent with the ability to downregulate cap-dependent translation by sequestration of eif4e .
 tumor growth in the cam show that 4e-bp1 overexpressing bt474 cell tumor be almost large after 8 day of growth compare to vector or 4e-bp1 mutant control figure 4e p whereas 4e-bp1 cell tumor increase by compare to control p and cell tumor by p .
 thus increase expression of 4e-bp1 promote angiogenesis and vascular density in conjunction with increase level of eif4g .
 the importance of 4e-bp1 eif4g and eif4e in promote tumor angiogenesis be also investigate in mda-mb435 breast cancer cell by silence expression .
 expression of 4e-bp1 eif4g or eif4e be reduce by use stable transform lentivirus shrna vector without an effect on nontargeted eif4a or eif4b level .
 the reduction of eif4g or eif4e result in only a decrease in overall protein synthesis rate datum not show consistent with the result of figure 2c .
 compared to control tumor when implant into the cam of chick embryo tumor angiogenesis be reduce by with silence 4e-bp1 with eif4g and with eif4e silence .
 the silence of eif4g also much significantly reduce vegf production and tumor growth compare to eif4e silence consistent with the importance of ires-directed vegf mrna translation .
 full-size image 159k high-quality image 1386k figure effect of 4e-bp1 eif4g or eif4e on tumor growth angiogenesis and vegf expression .
 a mda-mb435 cell be stably reduce in expression of 4e-bp1 eif4gi or eif4e by transformation with shrna lentivirus vector and implant into cam and tumor be grow for 8 day .
 tumor be excise and equal amount of protein examine by sds-page immunoblot analysis as show .
 b top representative tumor grow in the cam from control and silence mb435 cell be photograph in situ .
 bottom the tumor vasculature be make visible by immunofluorescence staining with fitc-labeled lectin as describe in the legend to figure .
 c vascular density of tumor grow in cam shown in b be determine as describe in the experimental procedure .
 d the level of vegf expression secrete into cam be determine by assay equal amount of cam extract by elisa .
 e tumor growth be determine by compare the excise weight and volume of tumor mg mm3 normalize to the vector control tumor set at .
 data in all study be derived from at least three independent experiment comprise five egg per tumor cell line .
 f vector control or ha-4e-bp1 overexpressing bt474 cell be implant subcutaneously into the flank of nude mouse with implantation of day exogenous estrogen pellet tumor be photograph in situ and excise at 21 day .
 ihc be carry out on paraffin-embedded section .
 typical result be show .
 g bt474 tumor cell volume be determine at 21 day from three independent trial of eight mouse per group p .
 h bt474 control and 4e-bp1 eif4g overexpressing tumor be grow in mouse for 3 week while express the cap-dependent rfp ires-dependent gfp bicistronic reporter mrna .
 tumor be excise into oct and freeze section be prepare and visualize by confocal microscopy merge rfp gfp image show .
 data be quantify from ten independent field of cell and display as the ratio of gfp rfp .
 i tumor vasculature visualize by texas red-dextran decoration of tumor vasculature endothelium .
 mice be inject with stain and sacrifice 5 min later and tumor vasculature be visualize in embed section by confocal microscopy and quantify .
 arrow indicate blood vessel with costained erythrocytes .
 standard error of the mean be calculate from at least three independent experiment and all result achieve p pair student 's t test .
 view within article .
 increased expression of 4e-bp1 and eif4g promotes tumor growth ires-dependent translation and angiogenesis in an animal model .
 study next determine whether ires-directed expression of vegf increase tumor angiogenesis and growth in a mouse tumor model .
 female mouse at 6 week of age be implant subcutaneously in the flank with equal number of vector control or 4e-bp1 overexpressing bt474 cell .
 primary tumor growth be promote fold over a period of 3 week by 4e-bp1 figure 5f and 5g p .
 4e-bp1 tumor be very small regress within 2 week and not be study far datum not show .
 neither unmodified nor 4e-bp1 overexpressing or cell form tumor in mouse datum not show .
 bt474 tumor be excise and embed in paraffin and thin section be analyzed by ihc .
 all of the large tumor continue to overexpress 4e-bp1 be strongly increase in expression of vegf-a and show no change in eif4g and eif4e level compare to vector control .
 level of cap-dependent and vegf ires-dependent mrna translation be visualize in tumor by prior transfection of vector and 4e-bp1 overexpressing bt474 cell with a vector express the bicistronic cap-rfp vegf ires-gfp mrna describe early .
 tumor be grow over a period of 3 week excise and visualize by confocal microscopy .
 the gfp rfp ratio which be a measure of the cap-dependent to cap-independent level of translation direct by the vegf ires be quantify .
 4e-bp1 overexpressing tumor synthesize fold high level of gfp which be drive by the vegf ires compare to rfp drive by the cap-dependent 5ncr find in vector control cell normalize for mrna level .
 this datum therefore demonstrate a switch from cap-dependent to ires-directed translation during tumor growth only in tumor cell overexpressing 4e-bp1 and eif4g .
 the tumor vasculature be visualize by injection of texas-red conjugate dextran which bind and decorate the endothelial vasculature component .
 analysis of tumor section by confocal microscopy demonstrate a 3 fold increase in small blood vessel density in the 4e-bp1 eif4g overexpressing tumor compare to control some of which be see contain erythrocytes .
 overexpression of 4e-bp1 therefore promote increase ires-dependent mrna translation at the expense of cap-dependent mrna translation and be associate with increase tumor growth and angiogenesis in an animal model .
 discussion .
 several key mrna in tumorigenesis such as vegf-a bcl2 and hif1 be dual translation mrna that can utilize cap-dependent and cap-independent ires mechanism .
 an important effect of hypoxia be to restrict cap-dependent mrna translation .
 thus mrna encode angiogenic factor vegf and fgf and mediator of the hypoxia response hif1 among other must possess an alternate mean for initiate translation under hypoxic condition .
 it be previously show that survival of breast tumor cell under stress condition such as hypoxia involve increase vegf mrna translation via activation of the pi3k mtor pathway .
 study suggest that although some of this increase be a result of hif1 induction of vegf transcription selective vegf translation be considerably increase by hypoxia activation of overexpressed 4e-bp1 with consequent reduction of cap-dependent protein synthesis and promotion of ires-dependent mrna translation .
 it be also previously show that human chromosome position 8p11-12 which include the 4e-bp1 gene be amplify in some human breast and prostate cancer possibly explain 4e-bp1 overexpression that we observe in large tumor .
 a key finding of this study be that increase expression of 4e-bp1 and eif4g reprograms cell to trigger hypoxia-mediated angiogenesis response at much high level of oxygen through great sequestration of eif4e by 4e-bp1 suppression of cap-dependent and increase ires-mediated mrna translation .
 this scenario be reciprocally associate with increase or sustain translation via the ires in dual function mrna during hypoxia include those orchestrate angiogenesis vegf anti-apoptosis bcl2 and hypoxia hif1 response .
 however translation of this same mrna can also be increase by cap-dependent translation through overexpression of eif4e which can promote tumor growth and angiogenesis as well gingras et 1999 and holcik and sonenberg .
 indeed collectively with work we suggest that there may be two pathway by which translational control may be involve in cancer progression .
 we suggest that increase expression of eif4e and stronger cap-dependent mrna translation may be one mechanism but one that also likely require uncoupling hypoxia inhibition of cap-dependent mrna translation during transformation .
 the second pathway suggest here involve increase expression of 4e-bp1 and eif4g which promote great level of ires-dependent mrna translation during hypoxia but function in the absence of uncoupling of hypoxia inhibition of cap-dependent mrna translation .
 the maintenance of bcl2 expression by ires-dependent mrna translation under this condition be likely critical for the development of the large tumor observe in mouse by promote tumor cell survival .
 overexpression of 4e-bp1 and eif4g do not increase tumor cell proliferation rate datum not show suggest that preservation of tumor cell viability underlie at least part of the large increase in tumor size observe in animal .
 importantly both model of translational control in cancer cap dependent and ires dependent be derived largely from animal and model system and be at this point only statistically associate with change observe in translation factor level in human tumor specimen .
 nevertheless several group have now observe elevate level of 4e-bp1 in human prostate head and neck and some gastrointestinal cancer kremer et and martin et .
 the effect of 4e-bp1 overexpression in study be also not at odd with a report in which engineer overexpressed 4e-bp1 be find to be inhibitory to cell growth and transformation .
 in those study the level of 4e-bp1 overexpression be much high which likely explain inhibitory effect even under normoxic condition as 4e-bp1 at much physiological level typically function as a growth inhibitor only after stress activation .
 finding support a molecular mechanism in which both cap-dependent translation drive by eif4e and eif4g and cap-independent ires-mediated translation promote under hypoxia by 4e-bp1 level be require for tumor eif4e would then promote strong translation and tumor cell proliferation in the absence of hypoxia as have be observe for a lymphoma nonsolid tumor model .
 in solid tumor high level of eif4e would also be expect to promote tumor survival and angiogenesis particularly if hypoxia inhibition of cap-dependent mrna translation be uncouple either by disruption of hypoxia signaling pathway tumor cell engagement of specific integrin such as 6b4 or other mean .
 in contrast elevate 4e-bp1 reduce the level of oxygen depletion require to trigger this inhibition thereby preserve tumor cell viability and promote strong ires-dependent mrna translation mediate by eif4g .
 it need to be mention that 4e-bp1 activation by hypoxia in study be not equivalent to treatment of cell with rapamycin an mtor inhibitor that block tumor growth by function as an antiangiogenic agent del bufalo et guba et and thomas et .
 rapamycin inhibition of mtor have other effect on the cell apart from activation of 4e-bp1 include inhibition of cell growth inhibition of vegf stimulation of vascular endothelial cell vinals et 1999 and yu et impair akt activity and g1 cell-cycle arrest .
 in fact it be note that rapamycin do not strongly downregulate vegf production but do block expression of hif1 at the level of transcription del bufalo et and thomas et consistent with result figure s2b .
 in summary we have show that overexpression of 4e-bp1 and eif4g in model system promote a switch from cap-dependent to ires-dependent translation mediate by hypoxia result in selective translation of ires-containing mrna such as vegf hif1 and bcl2 that promote tumor angiogenesis and survival .
 experimental procedure .
 ihc immunoblot and vegf elisa analysis retroviral and lentiviral expression study single-step real-time quantitative rt-pcr subcutaneous xenotransplant tumor model cam analysis of tumor growth and angiogenesis methionine incorporation assay and cell line cell culture antibody plasmid and transfection be describe in the supplemental experimental procedure .
 tissue specimen .
 specimen consist of 94 primary breast cancer specimen stage i iii 85 of which include all factor .
 specimen be obtain from archival paraffin block between 1996 and .
 breast cancer patient be age 27 79 year and be treat at the nyu school of medicine nyusm .
 sample be select as code specimen under an hipaa-compliant protocol approve by the nyusm institutional review board and include all tumor specimen identify as stage i iii invasive ductal carcinoma .
 all tumor specimen be obtain from surgical resection t1 and small t2 tumor or tumor core biopsy except for immunoblot study in figure 1b which be obtain from fresh posttreatment surgically resected t3 tumor specimen .
 fresh normal breast tissue be obtain from mammoplasty reduction surgery .
 final breast cancer diagnosis be confirm by pathologic evaluation .
 tumor size be determine at surgical pathology t1 and small t2 tumor or clinically by caliper measurement large t2 tumor 4 cm and t3 tumor 5 cm .
 tissue microarray be develop as describe by use three mm 4 mm thick circular punch per tumor specimen choose by the pathologist blind to study design .
 specimen be stain with hematoxylin and eosin he to confirm diagnosis .
 each series include as control normal breast tissue select common specimen to provide for consistent interpretation and pack section cell line engineer to over- or underexpress specific factor .
 morphometric analysis of tumor vasculature .
 tumor vasculature in cam study be make visible by staining with fluorescein isothiocyanate fitc -labeled lycopersicon lectin vector lab as describe .
 briefly 5 m freeze section be fix for s in permeabilized with triton block and incubate with fitc-lectin for hr and then slide be mount and view by confocal fluorescent microscopy with a zeiss 25m pascal scope .
 the percent vascular area and mean fluorescent vasculature density of the tumor be derived from the image as describe .
 in vivo vessel labeling be conduct as describe .
 briefly texas red-conjugated dextran mol wt molecular probes prepare at mg ml in pbs be inject by tail vein 21 g g weight and mouse be sacrifice 3 min later .
 tumor be rapidly excise fix in formalin paraffin embed and section .
 vessels be visualize by immunofluorescence microscopy .
 statistical analysis .
 statistical analysis of laboratory research result compare difference between control and experimental group utilize two-sided student 's t test .
 see the supplemental experimental procedure for ihc statistical analysis show in the supplemental .
 acknowledgment .
 we thank member of the lab for helpful discussion and critique of this work .
 the main clinically use prognostic factor in lymph-node-negative breast cancer be age tumour diameter and histological several commonly use clinicopathological guideline have be develop on the basis of this prognostic however this factor do not predict accurately the exact clinical behaviour of breast tumour and therefore patient can be over-treated or under-treated depending on what clinicopathological guideline be use for advise adjuvant systemic treatment .
 according to one study as many as 33 patient would need to be treat for one patient to remain alive when this clinicopathological guideline be therefore additional factor be need to guide decision on adjuvant systemic treatment .
 a gene prognosis signature be identify by gene expression profile on 78 patient with breast cancer select from the tissue bank of the netherlands cancer five of this patient have receive some form of adjuvant systemic treatment three patient have receive chemotherapy two patient have receive endocrine treatment .
 all patient have be follow up at least annually for at least 5 year .
 patient classify by the prognosis signature as have poor prognosis have an odd ratio or of 15 ci 4 56 to develop a distant metastasis within 5 year compare with patient who have good this signature seem a much powerful prognostic factor for distant metastasis and death than current clinicopathological factor and seem a strong independent prognostic factor in multivariate the prognostic value of this signature be validate in three retrospective study of patient with node-negative breast cancer van de vijver and colleagues15 study the signature in 151 patient age 53 year good prognosis signature v poor prognosis signature buyse and co-workers16 assess untreated patient age 61 year good prognosis signature v poor prognosis signature and bueno-de-mesquita and colleagues17 study 123 patient from two dutch institute age 55 year good prognosis signature v poor prognosis signature .
 van de vijver 's group show that the year overall survival in patient with lymph-node-negative cancer and poor prognosis signature be se 6 versus se 2 for patient with good prognosis in this three study the prognosis signature seem a strong independent prognostic factor in comparison with current clinicopathological factor in the multivariate analysis .
 by use of the prognosis signature up to 13 patient might be treat to save one life however whether this modelling13 be accurate be a subject of ongoing research .
 a major difficulty in the technical implementation of the prognosis signature in daily clinical practice will be the feasibility of collect good-quality breast tumour rna which be necessary for obtain the prognosis signature .
 in much hospital tumour sample be routinely and directly fix in formalin and embed in paraffin block however storage of tissue in this way result in rna degradation .
 to evaluate whether the prognosis signature be suitable for use in clinical practice we undertake the microarray prognostics in breast cancer raster study .
 we aim to assess feasibility of implementation of a gene prognosis signature as a diagnostic test in community hospital in the netherlands effect of the prognosis signature on use of adjuvant systemic treatment proportion of patient with poor versus good prognosis in a series of unselected patient with node-negative breast cancer and concordance between risk predict by the prognosis signature and risk predict by commonly use clinicopathological guideline .
 we report here the finding of the raster study .
 method patient .
 women be enrolled in this study after give inform consent if they have histologically confirm unilateral primary operable invasive adenocarcinoma of the breast clinically t1 accord to the tumour node and metastases tnm stage system sixth edition and be age under 61 year at diagnosis .
 exclusion criterion be previous history of a malignancy with exception of basal-cell carcinoma or cervical dysplasia or neoadjuvant systemic treatment .
 by the end of after accrual of 242 patient the study coordinator decide to change the maximum allow age to 54 year ie 55 year .
 the study coordinator amend the protocol because the prognostic value of the prognosis signature have be obtain in patient age under 55 year and at that time a plan validation of the prognostic value in patient age over 55 year be not yet available .
 the central investigative review board of the netherlands cancer institute approve this amendment .
 however all patient be include in the analysis report here .
 procedure .
 to participate in this study hospital have to have uniformly structure multidisciplinary breast cancer care that use standard operating procedure they have to treat at least patient with breast cancer a year and have to have at least one dedicate physician surgeon pathologist or medical oncologist as a local coordinator .
 since collection of tumour tissue from surgical specimen by the pathologist for obtain the prognosis signature be not a standard procedure patient permission and inform consent before surgery be need .
 therefore patient be enrolled before surgery to ensure permission be obtain .
 after enrolment patient receive surgery as primary treatment .
 immediately after the breast tumour be surgically remove it be store in a container without any preserve solution eg formalin take to the pathology department under supervision of the surgeon and process by the attend local pathologist .
 the surgeon the pathologist and the assist staff be train in this procedure .
 within 1 h after surgery a tumour sample be take by the local pathologist for quality control check of the rna in accordance with the guidance of the us food and drug administration fda for the assessment of the gene prognosis signature mammaprint amsterdam netherlands .
 for this purpose biopsy punch 6 mm diameter be distribute by the trial coordinator at the netherlands cancer institute to participate pathology department to ensure standardised tumour sampling .
 the sample be store by the local pathologist directly after removal in a container with rnalater rna preservation fluid name have since change to rnaretain asuragen austin tx usa and send by regular mail to the pathology department of the netherlands cancer institute .
 sample from patient that be postoperatively eligible for analysis of the prognosis signature be send to agendia laboratory amsterdam netherlands .
 the sample from postoperatively ineligible patient be store at the pathology department of the netherlands cancer institute .
 quality check of the rna in each sample be do routinely at agendia laboratory where the prognosis signature test be .
 after surgery patient with any of the follow be exclude from analysis node-positive disease define as a lymph-node metastasis 2 mm non-permitted histology little than invasive tumour cell in the sample or insufficient quality of tumour .
 in patient with non-permitted histology the patient be consider to have invasive breast cancer before surgery and therefore ask to participate in the raster study after surgery and definitive pathological examination the diagnosis prove to be different than invasive carcinoma eg ductal carcinoma in situ adenoid cystic carcinoma myoepithelial tumour or no malignancy .
 the treat physician ascertain patient prognosis and corresponding advice on adjuvant systemic treatment chemotherapy with or without immunotherapy or endocrine treatment or both by use of the dutch institute for healthcare improvement cbo guideline and register this treatment advice on clinical registration form crf subsequently the prognosis signature result be obtain weigh in this treatment decision and final treatment advice be register on crf this adjuvant systemic treatment advice be discuss with the patient .
 the patient 's preference for treatment be include and the actual adjuvant systemic treatment give be register on crf follow-up be obtain annually for all accrue patient up to april .
 paraffin-embedded tumour sample be analyse at the pathology department of the participate hospital by pathologist who be blind to the result of the prognosis signature .
 histological tumour grade accord to elston and oestrogen-receptor status progesterone-receptor status and erbb2-receptor status be establish by each participate hospital accord to locally use method .
 according to dutch guideline oestrogen and progesterone receptor be deem positive if at least of tumour cell stain positive in immunohistochemical assay .
 sample be deem erbb2-positive if the score be in immunohistochemical assay .
 if the score be in immunohistochemical assay and a fluorescent in-situ hybridisation result fish be available the fish result positive or negative be use .
 the initial histopathology datum without central review of paraffin-embedded tumour sample be use for clinical-risk assessment by the treat physician and in the statistical analysis .
 after tumour sample be receive at the netherlands cancer institute they be snap freeze in liquid nitrogen and store at .
 frozen section of each sample be obtain and stain with haematoxylin and eosin and analyse by an experience breast pathologist mjvdv or jlp .
 eligible sample have to contain at least tumour cell .
 detail of rna isolation microarray analysis and correlation of microarray datum with the prognosis signature have previously be microarray analysis for obtain the prognosis signature mammaprint be do by staff at agendia laboratory who be blind to clinical and pathological datum .
 agendia 's mammaprint diagnostic service be recognised by the us food and drug administration as a medical device and be accredit with use of mammaprint this array chip assess the mrna expression of the gene in triplicate by use of the agilent santa clara usa oligonucleotide microarray the sensitivity of the gene signature be initially set to allow of the patient with poor outcome in the series on which the signature be develop to be identify as low risk .
 in the current study the cut-off between the good and poor prognosis signature be the same as that use to first identify the prognosis signature and in subsequent validation hereafter risk assessment by use of clinicopathological factor be referred to as clinical risk .
 clinical risk index include dutch cbo st gallen nottingham prognostic index npi and adjuvant online version .
 in this study a moderate or high clinical risk be an indication for adjuvant systemic treatment .
 clinical guideline vary substantially in selection criterion of which patient should receive adjuvant systemic treatment .
 the dutch cbo guideline and the npi be much restrictive in select patient for adjuvant systemic treatment compare with the other guideline outline above .
 the dutch cbo guideline be primarily based on the assumption that adjuvant chemotherapy be only justify if an absolute survival benefit of much than at year can be expect .
 this guideline be formally adapt in and lead to minor change in risk assessment for adjuvant systemic treatment .
 if a patient be treat before the adaptation of the guideline the risk assessment for adjuvant systemic treatment be based on the previous guideline of in the guideline low clinical risk be define as age over 35 year tumour grade 1 and small than mm or grade 3 small than mm .
 for tumour small than mm and of grade 2 low risk be define as fewer than 13 mitotic figure every 2 mm2 .
 if a patient 's risk assessment for treatment be do after this adaptation the adapt guideline be according to this guideline low clinical risk be define as age over 35 year tumour of grade 1 and mm or small grade 2 and small than mm or grade 3 and mm or little .
 additionally age of 35 year or under with grade 1 tumour of mm or little be deem low risk .
 all other patient age 35 year or under be deem high risk .
 notably in the dutch cbo guideline adjuvant endocrine treatment be advise only in clinically high-risk patient with hormone-receptor-positive tumour in combination with chemotherapy .
 according to the st gallen guideline low clinical risk be define as oestrogen-receptor positive or progesterone-receptor-positive status or both and all of this criterion tumour size of 2 cm or small grade 1 and age 35 year or all other tumour be deem to be associate with a moderate or high risk of distant metastasis and death .
 the npi compute a score with the algorithm cm status .
 a moderate or high risk be define as a score great than the adjuvant online software calculate a year survival probability based on the patient 's age tumour size tumour grade oestrogen-receptor status and nodal patient be assign to a high clinical risk if year survival probability be little than as estimate by adjuvant online software .
 institutional approval for this study be obtain centrally from the institutional review board of the netherlands cancer institute and locally from the institutional review board of the participate hospital .
 this prospective feasibility study be register on the international standard randomised control trial register number isrctn71917916 .
 all patient give write inform consent .
 the analysis report here be do jmbdm scl mjvdv and hvt centrally at the netherlands cancer institute .
 statistical analysis .
 calculation be do by use of spss version .
 difference between the group of interest be test with the pearson 2 test .
 ordinal variable age pathological t stage of tnm histological grade and nodal status with much than two group be test for trend by cochran-armitage test .
 a significant finding be define as p value low than .
 level of agreement between clinical-risk assessment and prognosis signature be express by mean of a cohen 's kappa .
 a kappa of one suggest perfect agreement and a kappa of zero suggest no agreement .
 role of the funding source .
 this study be financially support by the dutch health care insurance board .
 the funding source have no role in the study design datum collection datum analysis datum interpretation in write the report or in the decision to submit for publication .
 jmbdm hvt mjvdv and scl have access to all of the raw datum .
 jmbdm mjvdv and scl have final responsibility for the decision to submit for publication .
 result .
 812 patient be enrolled in the 16 participate dutch hospital between and .
 after exclusion of preoperative and postoperative non-eligible patient 19 protocol violation 182 patient have node-positive cancer and 26 patient have histology that be not permit figure 1 585 eligible patient remain .
 of this patient another 158 patient be exclude because of sampling failure 128 patient and incorrect procedure patient .
 in 427 of the 585 eligible patient prognosis profile be obtain .
 full-size image 29k high-quality image 239k figure patient enrolled exclude and test for the gene signature .
 carcinoma in situ .
 note tumour too small for biopsy mean that if a tumour sample have be take to obtain a gene prognosis signature too little tumour tissue would remain for standard pathological examination .
 view within article .
 mean age of eligible patient be 48 year median 49 sd 7 range 27 and mean tumour diameter be 17 mm median 15 sd 8 range 2 .
 we do not note any difference in age between eligible patient for whom a prognosis signature be or be not obtain webtable 1 .
 by contrast the mean diameter sd be large in patient for whom the prognosis signature be obtain 17 mm v 14 mm and tumour be much often grade 3 136 of 427 v 37 of 158 .
 patient and tumour characteristic of the 427 patient in whom a prognosis signature be assess be summarised in table median follow-up be 14 month range 364 .
 during follow-up ten first event occur consist of three regional recurrence five distant metastases as first event one contralateral breast cancer and one second primary malignancy bronchoalveolar carcinoma .
 table .
 characteristic of patient and tumour in the analysis of the gene prognosis signature .
 gene prognosis signature p good poor age .
 36 .
 41 .
 46 .
 51 .
 .
 type of .
 breast-conserving .
 axillary .
 .
 slnp and .
 histological tumour .
 .
 .
 .
 tumour size ptnm pt1 pt2 pt3 .
 histological 1 good .
 2 intermediate .
 3 poor .
 oestrogen-receptor .
 .
 progesterone-receptor .
 .
 .
 erbb2-receptor .
 .
 .
 nodal .
 isolated tumour cell mm .
 micrometastases mm .
 adjuvant systemic .
 .
 endocrine .
 .
 adjuvant .
 .
 .
 .
 full-size table .
 procedure .
 tumour node and metastases stage t stage .
 missing value be not use for calculation of p value .
 actual treatment in crf percentage might not add up to because of round .
 view within article .
 219 of the 427 patient in this series have a good prognosis signature and patient have a poor prognosis signature .
 table 1 show the association of the gene prognosis signature with clinical and pathological characteristic .
 a good prognosis signature be infrequently note in oestrogen-receptor-negative tumour 3 of 85 patient in grade 3 tumour 16 of 136 patient and in erbb2-positive tumour 9 of 48 patient .
 by contrast poor prognosis signature be not often find in grade 1 tumour 15 of 87 patient and lobular breast carcinoma 9 of 47 patient .
 according to the dutch cbo guideline 184 of 427 patient be at high risk adjuvant online 294 of 427 patient the npi 179 of 427 patient and the st gallen guideline 353 of 427 patient .
 clinical risk be discordant with the prognosis signature for 128 patient kappa accord to the dutch cbo guideline patient kappa accord to adjuvant online 117 patient kappa accord to the npi and 168 patient kappa accord to the st gallen guideline table 2 .
 we would like to emphasise that this comparison between clinicopathological risk assessment and prognosis signature risk assessment be theoretical and be based on the fact that only one of the risk-assessment method would be choose for use .
 this comparison show that for about one-third of the patient the patient identify as high risk differ when the clinical-risk profile and the prognosis-signature-risk profile be compare .
 this amount of discordance be similar to the amount of discordance between finding from the clinical guideline use in this paper which vary between 7 datum not show .
 table .
 discordances between gene prognosis profile and risk assessment accord to other clinicopathological risk index .
 gene prognosis signature n discordant finding n ci kappa good poor clinical risk dutch cbo guideline low 167 39 76 18 128 26 34 high 52 12 132 31 .
 .
 clinical risk adjuvant online low 96 22 37 9 37 32 42 high 123 29 171 .
 .
 clinical risk npi guideline low 175 41 73 17 117 27 23 31 moderate or high 44 135 32 .
 .
 clinical risk st gallen guideline low 62 15 11 3 168 39 34 44 moderate or high 157 37 196 46 .
 .
 full-size table .
 this number be summed to obtain discordant finding .
 for definition of clinical low moderate or high risk see method .
 data miss for one patient .
 percentage might not add up to because of round .
 view within article .
 according to the dutch cbo guideline 184 of 427 patient be at clinical high risk and 243 of 427 be at clinical low risk table 3 .
 based on this guideline the oncologist recommend adjuvant systemic treatment for patient chemotherapy for 71 patient endocrine therapy for 17 patient and both for 115 patient table 3 and figure 2 this recommendation be register on crf1 .
 in 26 of 427 patient much adjuvant systemic treatment be advise than theoretically need accord to the dutch cbo guideline .
 in 11 of 427 patient little adjuvant systemic treatment be advise than theoretically need accord to the dutch cbo guideline table 3 .
 therefore the oncologist 's treatment advice be compliant with clinical dutch cbo guideline in of 427 patient .
 if the clinical risk and the prognosis signature be take into account table 4 and figure 2 the oncologist recommend adjuvant systemic treatment for 265 of 427 patient chemotherapy for patient endocrine treatment for 46 patient and both for 139 patient this recommendation be register on crf 2 and show that 62 much patient be recommend for treatment on crf 2 than on crf .
 table .
 adjuvant systemic treatment advice formulate with the dutch cbo guideline crf 1 none chemotherapy endocrine treatment both dutch cbo guideline n low risk 217 51 4 1 13 3 9 2 compliance of 427 high risk 7 2 67 16 4 1 25 not compliant 37 of 427 full-size table .
 treatment advice crf 1 do not agree with advice of the dutch cbo guideline .
 percentage might not add up to because of round .
 view within article .
 full-size image 63k high-quality image 469k figure adjuvant systemic treatment recommendation .
 a for all patient b patient in whom the clinical risk based on dutch cbo guideline be concordant with the prognosis signature based risk and c patient in whom the two method of risk assessment be discordant .
 view within article .
 table .
 adjuvant systemic treatment advice formulate with the dutch cbo guideline and prognosis signature crf 2 none chemotherapy endocrine treatment both dutch cbo guideline and prognosis signature n low-good 152 36 3 3 1 low-poor 4 1 12 3 5 9 high-good 6 1 1 12 3 33 8 high-poor 16 2 63 15 full-size table .
 treatment advice crf 1 and crf 2 do not agree with advice of the dutch cbo guideline .
 no guideline exist for this patient .
 percentage might not add up to because of round .
 view within article .
 if clinical risk prognosis signature and patient preference for treatment be all take into account adjuvant systemic treatment be actually give in 259 of 427 patient and register on crf 3 chemotherapy in 77 patient endocrine treatment in 57 patient and both give in 125 patient table 5 and table 6 and figure 2 .
 56 patient have much adjuvant systemic treatment than the patient who have initially be advise and register on crf 1 based on only the dutch cbo guideline .
 overall 83 patient receive another adjuvant systemic treatment when the combine dutch cbo guideline prognosis signature finding and patient preference for treatment crf 3 be use compare with treatment advice based only on the dutch cbo guideline register on crf 1 table 6 .
 table .
 adjuvant systemic treatment advice formulate with dutch cbo guideline prognosis signature and patient treatment preference crf 3 none chemotherapy endocrine treatment both dutch cbo guideline prognosis signature and patient preference n low-good 152 36 3 2 low-poor 8 2 2 25 6 33 8 high-good 6 1 1 15 4 7 high-poor 2 66 15 4 1 14 full-size table .
 actual treatment give do not agree with advice of the dutch cbo guideline .
 no guideline exist for this patient .
 percentage might not add up to because of round .
 view within article .
 table .
 treatment advice of the dutch cbo guideline crf 1 versus actual treatment give crf 3 crf 3 none chemotherapy endocrine treatment both crf 1 none 163 38 7 2 27 6 27 6 chemotherapy 1 16 endocrine treatment 2 3 1 both 2 4 97 23 full-size table .
 data be number of patient and percentage of patient of 427 .
 treatment advice agree with actual treatment give and be not change by finding from the gene prognosis signature .
 patient receive much adjuvant systemic treatment than have be advise by the dutch cbo guideline after incorporation of prognosis signature and patient preference .
 patient receive little adjuvant systemic treatment than have be advise by the dutch cbo guideline after incorporation of prognosis signature and patient preference .
 view within article .
 as show in figure 2 in patient for whom the risk assessment and gene prognosis signature give concordant finding advice on adjuvant systemic treatment remain the same .
 consequently the increase in adjuvant systemic treatment be mainly note in patient for whom the risk accord to the clinical dutch cbo guideline be discordant with that accord to the prognosis signature figure 2 .
 based on the risk accord to the clinical dutch cbo guideline some form of adjuvant systemic treatment be advise for 61 of this patient chemotherapy for five patient endocrine treatment for six patient and both for patient webtable 2 .
 if the dutch cbo guideline prognosis signature find and patient 's preference for treatment be all consider 114 of the 128 patient actually receive adjuvant systemic treatment 11 receive chemotherapy patient receive endocrine treatment and 63 receive both webtable 2 .
 compared with crf 1 the decision to use adjuvant systemic treatment be change in 69 of 128 patient which result in an increase of 19 patient receive chemotherapy and 47 patient receive endocrine treatment .
 discussion .
 the finding of this study show that implementation of the gene prognosis signature as a diagnostic test be feasible in community hospital in the netherlands .
 postoperatively of the 812 patient be exclude mainly because of lymph-node metastases 182 of .
 generally of the invasive breast cancer be node-positive and be node-negative .
 only a small proportion of the patient be already clinically node-positive about before surgery .
 consequently a large proportion of the patient who be clinically node-negative be deem to be node-positive after surgery and pathological assessment of the lymph node around .
 in study of patient be node-positive after surgery as expect .
 the remain of patient be exclude because of histology that be not permit eg ductal carcinoma in situ without invasion which can be assess only after pathological assessment of the surgical specimen .
 in future this exclusion be prevent by collect freeze tumour sample from all patient with breast cancer as a standard clinical procedure .
 in that way the need for a prognosis signature can be assess postoperatively when the patient 's pathological tumour characteristic be know thereby prevent unnecessary logistical difficulty .
 furthermore much emphasis on adequate sampling of tumour during pathological assessment decrease the number of tumour with a low tumour cell percentage .
 at the start of the raster study 35 patient age 56 year be include before the amendment of protocol at the end of to low the upper age limit to 55 year .
 however because the number of patient age 55 61 year only represent 35 of 427 patient of the whole study population we do not undertake sub-group analysis to assess the effect of inclusion of this 35 patient on study finding .
 prognosis signature be obtain for 427 eligible patient .
 this proportion be improve by optimising the require logistic however low tumour- cell percentage in specimen and insufficient rna quality always be avoid .
 of the tumour assess 427 patient show a good prognosis signature and show a poor prognosis signature .
 this find confirm previous we note discordance between the prognosis signature and the clinical risk assessment in about one-third of patient regardless of the clinical risk index use .
 when the prognosis signature be use in combination with the dutch cbo guideline for adjuvant systemic treatment decision adjuvant systemic treatment would have be advise in 56 additional patient chemotherapy in six additional patient endocrine treatment in additional patient and both in ten additional patient compare with use of the dutch cbo guideline alone table 6 .
 this increase be mainly cause by much of 427 patient receive endocrine treatment 54 have endocrine treatment add and four have endocrine treatment withhold .
 chemotherapy be add in 35 patient and withhold in 19 patient net 16 patient have much chemotherapy .
 the original purpose of the research project be to improve selection of patient at very low or high risk of develop distant metastases thereby optimising advice on adjuvant systemic treatment .
 clinical guideline differ substantially in such advice .
 the dutch cbo guideline be restrictive in the recommendation of adjuvant systemic treatment endocrine and chemotherapy compare with the adjuvant online and st gallen guideline .
 initially based on the validation by van de vijver and we expect that little chemotherapy would be advise if the prognosis signature be use in clinical practice .
 in study much patient receive adjuvant systemic treatment this be mainly endocrine treatment of patient and chemotherapy only of patient .
 this finding can be explain by the fact that van de vijver and co-worker use the st gallen guideline to estimate the effect of the prognosis signature on decision on use of adjuvant systemic treatment .
 the st gallen guideline classify of the patient in current study as clinically high risk whereas the much restrictive dutch cbo guideline classify as clinically high risk .
 if the prognosis signature be use of the patient would be classify as have poor prognosis .
 this prediction would have result in little treatment if the st gallen guideline have be use but much adjuvant systemic treatment in comparison with the dutch cbo guideline .
 overall in comparison with all risk assessment test in about one-third of the patient the clinicopathological risk assessment be discordant with the prognosis signature .
 for of patient systemic adjuvant treatment management differ between that recommend by the dutch cbo guideline and that actually give based on the prognosis signature dutch cbo guideline and patient preference .
 this find might result in improve selection of patient and survival outcome as have be show in retrospective furthermore this study do not show how we should combine the prognosis signature with traditional prognostic and predictive factor to give advice on adjuvant systemic treatment .
 also we do not know yet the exact predictive value of the prognosis signature .
 the mindact-trial transbig consortium in collaboration with the european organisation for research and treatment of cancer in which the prognosis signature be prospectively study be currently underway and will provide finding on the exact prognostic and predictive value of the prognosis .
 this study show that in patient with oestrogen-receptor-negative tumour only have a good prognosis signature .
 in view of this the use of the prognosis signature be not need to classify oestrogen-receptor-negative tumour as poor prognosis because the likelihood of a good prognosis signature be very low .
 obviously the prognosis signature have little discriminative value regard prognosis in this subgroup .
 additional prognostic test might be need for this patient .
 the performance of the 76 gene prognosis signature would be interesting in this erbb2-gene amplification be an adverse prognostic factor however we know that not all erbb2-positive tumour will develop distant metastases after adequate locoregional treatment in study of the erbb2-positive tumour have a good prognosis signature .
 the need for chemotherapy and trastuzumab in this subgroup of patient need to be study .
 worldwide many patient with node-negative breast cancer and oestrogen-receptor-positive tumour receive adjuvant hormonal treatment .
 often prognostic test be use to decide which patient should also receive adjuvant chemotherapy .
 however over of patient with node-negative breast cancer be treat successfully without any adjuvant systemic treatment .
 test that improve the selection of patient who will benefit from adjuvant systemic treatment include hormonal treatment be need urgently for optimum individualised treatment of breast the clinical research community will have an important role in this process by freeze and store breast cancer tissue enable the generation of prognostic and predictive gene-expression profile .
 the raster-study report here have show that this process be possible in large number of hospital .
 the 21 gene recurrence score oncotype dx assay be another prognostic gene-expression profile and quantify the likelihood of distant recurrence in patient treat with tamoxifen who have node-negative oestrogen-positive breast cancer with paraffin-embedded the tailorx trial assigning individualized options for treatment trial will assess whether gene that be frequently associate with risk of recurrence for woman with early-stage breast cancer can be use to assign patient to the much appropriate and effective treatment .
 comparison of the prognostic value of the gene prognosis signature study here and the 21 gene recurrence score would be useful as would assessment of performance in a patient series .
 another interesting question be why do some physician choose not to base treatment decision on the prognosis signature when the risk assessment be discordant between the dutch cbo guideline and the prognosis signature additionally would patient knowledge of prognosis signature affect decisionmaking we be currently study this behavioural analysis and finding will be publish later in a separate report .
 a pilot for a formal cost-effectiveness analysis have not be do in the raster-study .
 however this analysis be plan in conjunction with the mindact microarray in node negative disease may avoid chemotherapy trial .
 the implementation of the gene prognosis signature be feasible in dutch community hospital .
 the fact that freeze tissue be need to undertake this test be not an obstacle for clinical use as have be show in this study .
 the much important question remain whether the prognosis signature study here will avoid unnecessary adjuvant systemic treatment without compromise overall patient survival .
 we expect that for optimum use of adjuvant systemic treatment the prognosis signature should be integrate with current clinicopathological risk assessment .
 contributors .
 scl mjvdv sr whvh and ljvveer be responsible for the study design and development of the protocol .
 whvh ensure financing .
 jmbdm coordinated the study .
 ejtr rmhr feb and cvk participate in the patient accrual .
 jmbdm kk and vpr take part in datum collection .
 jmbdm and hvt analyse the datum .
 jmbdm scl mjvdv take part in datum interpretation and write of the report .
 all author be involve in review the report .
 no medical writer be involve in this paper .
 mjvdv and scl contribute equally to this report .
 principal and co-investigators of raster study .
 this clinician enter patient or participate in the study or both number of accrue patient be in parenthesis j meijer j klinkenbijl j douma alysis care group arnhem 31 j wijsman d van der meer p de wit o loosveld amphia hospital breda 4 s veltkamp a baan g timmers k van der hoeven amstelland hospital amstelveen 66 j van der bijl a m lenssen i snijders m nap j wals m pannebakker atrium medical center heerlen 13 l strobbe f van den wildenberg r berry b dekker e thunnissen a uyterlinde c mandigers canisius-wilhelmina hospital nijmegen 21 j w arends h de vries a hemels-van der lans a imholz deventer hospital deventer i burgmans c i perre t van dalen j van gorp d ten bokkel huinink p thunissen diakonessenhuis utrecht 4 j roussel c bernhart e weltevreden s radema gelre hospital apeldoorn 21 r roumen p reemst a brands k vercoelen m van beek w dercksen g vreugdenhil maxima medical centre eindhoven veldhoven 114 t van der sluis a stam lotus sterk medisch spectrum twente enschede 6 m j baas-vrancken peeters h oldenburg i eekhout h hauer j schornagel netherlands cancer institute antoni van leeuwenhoek hospital amsterdam 172 h van der mijle d de vries i kruithof s hovenga nij smellinghe hospital drachten 18 b de valk m de boer p j borgstein a walter onze lieve vrouwe gasthuis amsterdam 16 c van krimpen p w de graaf c van de pol n van holsteijn a van leeuwen m m e m bos e maartense reinier de graaf group delft 124 a zeillemaker g van leeuwen j calame w molendijk g jonkers f cluitmans rijnland hospital leiderdorp 59 and f bellot g heuff a tanka p hoekstra k van de stadt j schrama spaarne hospital hoofddorp .
 conflict of interest .
 the raster study be financially support by the dutch health care insurance board cvz .
 ljvv and mjvdv be name inventor on a patent application for the gene signature use in this study .
 ljvv be a shareholder in and employ by agendia the commercial company that market the gene signature as mammaprint .
 anf tsw gb and amg be employ by agendia .
 whvh be a non-remunerated non-stake-holding member of the supervisory board of agendia .
 acknowledgment .
 we be indebted to the woman who participate in this study to the doctor nurse and datum manager from the participate hospital in the netherlands that enrolled patient in the raster-study .
 ilr may be a source of distant metastasis or a marker of systemic dissemination occur before initial a number of factor such as disease-free interval initial tumor and lymph node stage patient age extent and histology of the recurrent tumor be identify that may influence the risk of cause-specific mortality after local recurrence in patient with early-stage invasive breast breast cancer specific event be not uncommon much than five year after salvage treatment for local recurrence .
 however few author publish year result and use multivariate analysis to examine factor that affect outcome after and there be only three study evaluate survival after local relapse with respect to initial surgical the purpose of this study be to evaluate the long-term survival of patient after salvage treatment for ilr with respect to primary surgical treatment and prognostic factor .
 material and method .
 from january 1983 to december 1987 patient with stage i or ii breast cancer be treat consecutively with modify radical mastectomy or cs at the national institute of oncology budapest .
 detail regard baseline characteristic and adjuvant treatment be describe one hundred twenty four of the patient have subsequent ilr mastectomy 56 and cs 68 .
 ilr be define here as the appearance of any histologically verify new breast tumor invasive or non-invasive adenocarcinoma in the chest wall surgical flap and scar or in the operate breast parenchyma and or in the overlying skin at least three month prior to regional relapse or distant metastasis .
 ipsilateral in-breast relapse be classify as either new primary np tumor or true local recurrence tr .
 np be diagnose if the recurrence be distinctly different from the primary tumor with respect to the histological type or if the recurrence location be in a different anatomical sub-site clearly distinct location .
 salvage treatment consist of surgery radiation chemotherapy hormone therapy or a combination of the above .
 following cs the decision on the use of repeat wide excision or mastectomy be make by the patient and the treat surgical oncologist .
 generally a wide tumor excision be suggest if it be technically feasible and there be no skin involvement .
 sixteen patient do not have salvage surgery .
 they be consider inoperable due to disease extension affect the whole breast or wide-spread multiple-diffuse skin lesion .
 table .
 type of salvage treatment .
 excision12 systemicrt12 .
 conservative excision19 mastectomy22 systemicrt4 .
 full-size table .
 a radiotherapy .
 b chemo- or and hormonal therapy .
 view within article .
 survival analysis be carry out use kaplan meier time to ilr be calculate from initial surgery until the occurrence of ilr .
 time to second local recurrence be calculate from salvage surgery until the occurrence of second local recurrence .
 cause-specific survival be calculate from the date of the histological diagnosis of ilr until death from breast cancer or last follow-up .
 actuarial curve be compare by the two-tailed log-rank test and difference of be consider significant .
 the independent prognostic significance of variable prove to be significant factor in univariate analysis be test in proportional hazard regression model describe by the estimate of the model be give as relative risk rr with confidence interval ci .
 a separate analysis be also perform for both original surgical treatment group mastectomy and cs to investigate the possibility of a difference in prognostic factor after either treatment .
 result initial presentation .
 of the 124 ilr 121 be invasive and three in situ cancer cs patient .
 the median time from initial surgery to ilr be 48 month range 5 month .
 the median follow-up time for survive patient after the onset of ilr be 165 month range 75 month .
 at last follow-up 42 patient be alive two with distant disease and patient have die of breast cancer .
 the other 22 patient die of internal disease or other cancer .
 the actuarial rate of year cause-specific survival after ilr be .
 mastectomy patient have much advance initial stage than cs patient axillary lymph node metastasis and pt2 primary respectively .
 table 2 show the time from initial surgery to local recurrence by subset of patient .
 this interval be significantly short for patient with subsequent distant failure follow local recurrence with node positive primary with inoperable local recurrence and with grade 3 recurrent tumor .
 table .
 delay between initial surgery and local recurrence in month of patientsmedian mean p-valuea subsequent distant metastasis no6261 75 yes6229 45 age at first years2235 51 62 initial tumor pt18353 64 pt24143 51 initial lymph node pn negative7255 67 pn positive5235 initial mastectomy5644 55 conservative surgery6853 63 adjuvant no6443 52 68 operability of inoperable1618 26 65 recurrent tumor 1 28553 65 47 full-size table .
 a log-rank test .
 view within article .
 prognostic variable for all patient .
 the result of the univariate analysis of the test prognostic variable be show in table adjuvant radiotherapy be not but the other seven potential prognostic variable be significantly relate to survival after local recurrence .
 all patient with inoperable local recurrence die within year and the 3 year cause-specific survival be .
 the year survival rate be also poor for young and node positive woman or for those with short time to ilr .
 on multivariate analysis only inoperable recurrence rr young age at initial diagnosis rr and short time to recurrence rr 2 remain independent negative predictor of cause-specific survival and axillary lymph node stage at initial diagnosis show borderline significance .
 table .
 year cause specific survival follow isolate local recurrence by type of initial surgery and prognostic factor for all patient of patientssurvival p-value age at first years2227 .
 initial tumor pt24136 .
 initial lymph node stage pn negative7269 pn positive5229 .
 initial conservative surgery6862 .
 adjuvant no6463 .
 time to local recurrence 24 months3419 24 .
 operability of .
 recurrent tumor 1 2855733941 .
 full-size table .
 a 3 year survival be .
 view within article .
 table .
 multivariate proportional hazard model for cause-specific death follow local recurrence .
 cip-value age at first treatment .
 initial tumor stage pt1 .
 initial lymph node stage pn negative .
 initial surgery conservative surgery .
 time to local relapse 24 24 .
 operability of recurrence operable .
 recurrent tumor grade 1 2 .
 full-size table .
 rr relative risk and ci confidence interval .
 view within article .
 in the second step multivariate analysis the type of initial surgery and the operability of local recurrence be not include in the model as potential independent risk factor .
 the operability of in-breast recurrence affect the whole breast or chest wall surgical flap recurrence with wide-spread multiple-diffuse skin infiltration may be subject to operator skill and be obvious marker of distant dissemination .
 the follow factor increase the risk of death after treatment for ilr positive lymph node stage rr ci and short time 24 month to ilr rr ci .
 the combination of this variable strengthen prognostic value .
 the year survival after treatment for ilr with node negative stage with 24 month to ilr or with node positive stage with 24 month to ilr be and respectively .
 prognostic variable for mastectomy patient .
 of the 56 patient 34 have die of breast cancer and the rate of year cause-specific survival be .
 in 17 patient the ilr develop after 5 year follow initial operation .
 the result of the univariate analysis of the test prognostic variable be show in table all woman with inoperable ilr die within year and the 3 year cause-specific survival be .
 the number of young patient at risk be insufficient in give a reliable estimate at year and the 5 year survival rate be .
 the year survival be also very poor for patient with lymph node metastasis or with short time to local relapse and respectively .
 lymph node negative stage and single scar recurrence predict relatively good survival and at year respectively .
 patient with single scar recurrence with initial lymph node negative stage have an excellent survival rate at year .
 the year survival rate after surgery of ilr be 13 of 17 for patient with initial lymph node negative stage with 24 month to ilr .
 in the operable patient group patient with initial lymph node metastasis with 24 month to ilr have the poor survival rate 1 of 7 at year .
 table .
 year cause specific survival after an isolate local recurrence by prognostic factor for mastectomy patient of patientssurvival p-value age at first .
 initial tumor pt12649 .
 initial lymph node pn negative2368 pn positive3321 .
 adjuvant no2952 yes2728 .
 time to local 24 24 months3655 .
 operability of operable4451 .
 type of operable single scar2966 .
 recurrent tumor 1 2334132333 .
 full-size table .
 a 5 year survival rate .
 b 3 year survival rate .
 c multiple thoracic wall .
 view within article .
 prognostic variable for cs patient .
 of the 68 patient 26 have die of breast cancer and the rate of year cause-specific survival be .
 in 29 patient the ilr develop after 5 year follow initial operation .
 12 of the 16 np develop in node negative patient .
 four patient have inoperable ilr affect the whole breast with diffuse skin infiltration .
 the average recurrent tumor size for salvage excision or mastectomy patient be 14 mm range 7 mm and 23 mm range 55 mm respectively .
 the result of the univariate analysis of the test prognostic factor be show in table age time to ilr type of recurrence operability of recurrence and size of recurrence have significant impact on survival .
 the type of salvage surgery mastectomy or repeat lumpectomy have no significant impact on post-recurrence survival neither for patient with 2 cm year estimate survival rate 13 of 16 and 22 of 28 nor for patient with 2 cm year estimate survival rate 5 of 16 and 2 of 4 local recurrence .
 all np develop after 24 month after initial surgery .
 median time to ilr with np or tr be 68 and 47 month respectively .
 older patient year with np have the good survival rate follow surgery of ilr 12 of 13 at year .
 survival rate at year be for young patient year with np but only three patient belong to this group .
 table .
 year cause specific survival after an isolate local recurrence by prognostic factor for conservative surgery patient of patientssurvival p-value age at first years1638 years5271 .
 initial tumor pt15764 pt21153 .
 initial lymph node pn negative4969 pn positive1946 .
 adjuvant yes3354 .
 time to local 24 months1425 24 months5472 .
 type of true5254 new primary1688 .
 operability of operable6466 .
 size of operable 2 cm4481 2 .
 type of salvage wide excision3277 mastectomy3255 .
 recurrent tumor 1 2526731646 .
 full-size table .
 a one tumor bed recurrence be ductal carcinoma in situ and two new primary be paget 's disease .
 b affecting the whole breast with skin infiltration 3 year survival be .
 view within article .
 second local recurrence .
 sixteen patient be never free of local disease after systemic treatment for inoperable ilr .
 of the patient treat with surgery for initial local recurrence develop second local recurrence .
 mean time to second local recurrence be 28 month range 3 81 month .
 second local recurrence increase the risk of death rr ci and the year survival follow treatment for ilr without or with second local recurrence be and respectively .
 the rate of second local recurrence follow initial mastectomy or cs be 16 of 44 and 14 of 64 respectively .
 in mastectomy patient half of second local recurrence be synchronous event with distant relapse or come after distant relapse .
 in cs patient the rate of second local recurrence follow salvage excision or mastectomy be 9 of 32 and 5 of 32 respectively .
 the rate of second local recurrence follow salvage surgery for tr or np be 13 of 48 and 1 of 16 respectively .
 the local recurrence size 2 cm 2 cm have no significant impact on the rate of second local recurrence and .
 the second local recurrence rate for patient with 2 cm in-breast recurrence treat with salvage excision or mastectomy be and respectively and for patient with 2 cm in-breast recurrence the rate be after both salvage modality .
 discussion .
 in this series of 124 patient with stage i ii breast cancer who develop an ilr after mastectomy or cs the year actuarial rate of cause-specific survival after the event be .
 other study with pool result of mastectomy and cs patient have report survival rate similar to in the study of van tienhoven et the 5 year survival rate after local recurrence be similar for mastectomy and cs patient and respectively .
 in series the year survival be significantly well for cs patient and respectively .
 in the aforesaid study the characteristic of mastectomy and cs group be similar with respect to initial prognostic factor .
 in series mastectomy patient have significantly much advance initial stage and on multivariate analysis the type of initial surgery do not remain an independent predictor of post-recurrence survival .
 on the multivariate analysis of l et the outcome of patient be also not affect by the type of initial surgery .
 in the match pair analysis of janni et primary surgical treatment modality have marginal statistical significance and the 5 year survival after chest wall or in-breast recurrence be and respectively .
 in series time to local recurrence operability of local recurrence and age remain independent predictor of post-ilr survival and initial axillary lymph node status show borderline significance .
 in the series of institut gustave short relapse-free interval 24 month old age at diagnosis of the primary tumor and high histologic grade of the primary tumor and in the pool result of two randomized short time to local recurrence and initial axillary lymph node metastasis increase the risk of post-local recurrence mortality .
 in the match pair study of janni et initial lymph node status and time to local recurrence be the much significant prognostic factor for subsequent survival after local recurrence .
 in study the combination of this two variable strengthen prognostic value .
 the year survival after treatment for ilr with node negative stage with 24 month to ilr or with node positive stage with 24 month to ilr be and respectively .
 the cause-specific survival rate after in-breast recurrence be about at but voogd et report survival rate for patient with invasive recurrence .
 in case the survival rate be .
 we find that patient with old age at initial diagnosis a long interval to ilr np or operable ilr have a much favorable prognosis .
 the much frequently report prognostic factor for survival after in-breast local recurrence be time to extent of recurrence be also find to be significant prognostic in the study of galper et patient who do not undergo surgery for local recurrence have three-times high risk for death compare with patient who be subject to surgery .
 all of patient with inoperable in-breast recurrence die within year .
 kurtz et report survival at 5 year for patient with small than 2 cm in-breast recurrence .
 according to analysis the year survival be with 2 cm in-breast recurrence .
 in study the type of salvage surgery mastectomy repeat wide tumor excision be not a significant predictor of post-recurrence survival and for patient with 2 cm in-breast recurrence the year survival be after both salvage modality .
 on the base of publish survival result mastectomy do not appear to be mandatory for in-breast however patient with in-breast recurrence have already fail cs once and safe selection criterion for repeat lumpectomy be not well define .
 in patient the rate of second local recurrence follow salvage excision or mastectomy be and respectively .
 in the study of salvadori et the rate of second local recurrence with repeat lumpectomy be but other report high study show that there be a non significant tendency that patient subject to salvage mastectomy have well local control compare to the patient subject to repeat however repeat lumpectomy be not disadvantageous regard survival but mastectomy be an irreversible amputation .
 therefore in motivate patient with small 2 cm in-breast recurrence repeat cs might be carry out .
 ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence represent two distinct type of entity tr and np .
 patient with np have generally much favorable in series the year cause-specific survival rate after ilr be with tr and with np .
 smith et report similar year survival rate and respectively .
 in patient all np be develop after 24 month after primary surgery .
 we find two indicator of good prognosis patient with old age year with np have the good survival rate follow salvage surgery for ilr at year .
 other author do not find a difference between the prognosis of the two in the publish the proportion of np vary between 15 and and in patient rate be .
 the lack of standardized classification rule might explain the controversy .
 chest wall recurrence after mastectomy generally forecast a grim prognosis but long-term survival be possible in some patient .
 survival rate at year be .
 we find that patient with negative initial lymph node stage long time to ilr single scar recurrence or operable ilr have a much favorable prognosis .
 node negative patient with single scar recurrence have an excellent survival rate at year .
 the much commonly report prognostic factor for survival after local recurrence in mastectomy patient be the time to local recurrence and initial lymph node chagpar et demonstrate that initially node-negative patient who develop ilr 24 month after diagnosis of primary tumor have a favorable prognosis .
 et have the same observation and year cause-specific survival rate be for this subset of patient .
 in study the year cause-specific survival rate after local recurrence be for this patient but for those with initial lymph node metastasis with 24 month to ilr be only .
 in patient the rate of second chest wall recurrence after salvage surgery be .
 chagpar et report same result .
 young woman with early invasive breast cancer generally have poor prognosis and those who be treat with cs have a high risk of local the high frequency of local recurrence among young patient represent a problem itself but study do not find the survival to be significantly different for young woman who undergo cs compare with those who be subject to in multivariate analysis age remain independent predictor of post-recurrence mortality and young year patient have poor cause-specific survival rate at year .
 in other study with pool result of mastectomy and cs patient young age be not a significant negative predictor for post-recurrence we find that the median time to ilr be very short with subsequent distant metastasis or aggressive tumor .
 the short time median 18 month to ilr be observe in patient with inoperable local recurrence and none of them survive year after salvage therapy .
 interval between initial surgery and ilr be also relatively short median 35 month in young or node positive patient .
 time to ilr be the long median 68 month for cs patient with np tumor and they have an excellent survival rate at year .
 the shorten interval between event suggest that distant metastases already exist at the time of initial conclusion .
 the current study demonstrate that for patient who develop an ilr after mastectomy or cs for early invasive breast cancer long time to local recurrence initial node negative stage and old age confer a good prognosis .
 inoperable ilr or initial node positive stage with short time to ilr be an indicator of systemic dissemination .
 the type of initial surgery be not an independent predictor of post-recurrence survival .
 node negative mastectomy patient with single scar recurrence have a good estimate survival .
 for patient who undergo cs a repeat complete tumor excision have no deleterious effect on survival and np confer significantly well survival than tr .
 conflict of interest statement .
 none declare .
 yet in comparison to the relative wealth of research into the impact of surgery on body image see moyer 1997 for an overview the psychosocial impact of chemotherapy have receive relatively little attention .
 chemotherapy be recognize as have a range of side effect include nausea fatigue hair loss ulcer which often make patient feel ill in a way that the actual disease do not .
 alopecia or hair loss be often rate as one of the much common fear and traumatic aspect of chemotherapy see batchelor cull mnstedt et 1997 and may even be consider emblematic of the treatment and of cancer itself .
 although mechanism for prevent or reduce hair loss such as scalp tourniquet or scalp-cooling device have be develop effectiveness be contest see batchelor and hesketh et for overview and hair loss be for many patient currently an unavoidable aspect of chemotherapy treatment .
 understanding much about the experience of chemotherapy-induced hair loss enable us to inform healthcare practice and to well support patient .
 two different literature currently inform understanding quantitative research that attempt to establish the incidence and severity of different side effect from chemotherapy and to assess the impact of this on psychosocial outcome such as self-esteem body image and distress and qualitative study that aim to explore the experience of chemotherapy include hair loss for woman themselves .
 this literature which we briefly review tell us little about how woman prepare for hair loss before it occur .
 quantitative study of hair loss .
 much study within the nursing field have be concern with document the incidence and severity of side effect the onset and duration of symptom and the extent to which this be perceive as distressing or difficult .
 alopecia be typically rank as one of the much troublesome side effect of chemotherapy along with nausea and fatigue griffin et 1996 lindley et 1999 .
 some study suggest that the experience side effect be not as difficult or distressing as patient anticipate lindley et 1999 see also tierney et 1992 and this knowledge might go some way to reassure those receive chemotherapy for the first time .
 nonetheless substantial number of patient undergo chemotherapy find hair loss difficult or distressing .
 little research have explore the psychosocial impact of this side effect on self-esteem depression and body image .
 carpenter and brockopp find that woman rate self-esteem as significantly low at the time of alopecia although this do not necessarily mean that they have low self-esteem overall .
 a prospective longitudinal study that explore 29 patient self-concept and body image before treatment during complete hair loss and after hair re-growth find that self-concept and body image be poor during treatment and do not improve or return to pre-treatment level when hair begin to re-grow .
 while it be difficult to tease out whether difference in body image self-esteem or self-concept result from alopecia specifically or much general adjustment to a cancer diagnosis and chemotherapy treatment they do suggest that many woman experience a range of distressing side effect from chemotherapy treatment include alopecia which have a significant impact on psychosocial well-being .
 further research be need to explore the psychosocial impact of chemotherapy side effect and how cancer patient cope with this change .
 qualitative study of hair loss .
 a few qualitative study have explore cancer patient predominantly woman experience of chemotherapy include the meaning of hair loss the social and cultural aspect of hair loss the experience of hair loss and re-growth the meaning of chemotherapy treatment and experience of fatigue .
 although not all of this study focused specifically on hair loss collectively they have identify a number of key element in the experience of chemotherapy-induced alopecia .
 study that provide descriptive account of the process of hair loss suggest that for many woman this be traumatic .
 patient describe have hair fall out in clump on pillow and stick to the body in the shower or clog up the plug hole .
 they be shock when hair loss occur and they be confront by baldness .
 only two study explicitly but briefly examine how woman prepare for treatment side effect .
 in one patient prepare by gathering information from other people they have know nurse internet go to hairdresser shave hair and buy wig and hatsbut even those who engage in this activity still feel unprepared .
 in order to manage or cope with alopecia patient disguise or camouflage hair loss through the use of wig hat and scarf .
 rosman describe how some woman engage in total camouflage where a wig be wear always and everywhere and partial camouflage when they decide not to wear a wig in the presence of some people usually when at home .
 looking normal be something that take effort and be do for the benefit of self and the protection of other .
 some study describe the problem associate with wig use such as find them uncomfortable as signal a denial of the disease and perpetuate a feeling of be abnormal and some woman be relieve when this effort be abandon and the wig discard .
 study that focus on the meaning of hair loss suggest that this can represent a visible reminder of the illness woman look like a cancer patient and can be recognize as such by other .
 hair loss can also create a loss of self or identity as the person in the mirror no long look or feel like me as i normally be .
 however for some woman hair loss be accept as an inevitable consequence of treatmentpart of the price one pay for have treatmenta temporary and manageable aspect of treatment which one just have to get through and which can be take as evidence of the effectiveness or strength of the treatment .
 this qualitative study have be extremely useful for illuminating woman 's experience of hair loss .
 despite the small sample size there be some coherence between the theme be describe across this study .
 however they rarely focus specifically on the process of prepare for hair loss .
 where study do address the anticipation or preparation for hair loss this be often one among many theme and focus on this theme in detail be sacrifice in favour of provide an overview of the chemotherapy experience gallagher 1997 william et 1999 .
 consequently despite the utility of this study we still know very little about how woman prepare for the effect of chemotherapy treatment and how this preparation might be support by healthcare worker .
 in summary hair loss be often an unavoidable side effect of undergo chemotherapy treatment for cancer and it be often experience as distressing or traumatic .
 research suggest that hair loss may also have a psychosocial impact on patient self-esteem body image and self-concept but little be know about which patient might be much vulnerable or resilient to this effect and what factor might ameliorate this distress .
 preparing patient for hair loss be a significant challenge for nurse and physician and yet little be know about the process of prepare from the perspective of woman themselves .
 since preparation for hair loss have be identify as a key role for healthcare professional understanding much about this crucial period may enhance ability to support cancer patient through this potentially difficult time .
 in this paper we use datum from interview with woman prior to commence chemotherapy treatment to explore the process of anticipate and prepare for hair loss .
 method .
 the datum in this paper form part of a large study explore woman 's experience of chemotherapy .
 in the wide study nineteen woman be recruit on a volunteer basis from an oncology centre in a large city in the south west of england .
 the study be scrutinize and give approval both by the university of the west of england and by the south west local regional ethic committee .
 detail of the study be introduce by the consultant and specialist nurse during a consultation prior to chemotherapy treatment .
 an initial interview be arrange by telephone and formal write consent be obtain during the first interview .
 all woman have diagnosis of breast cancer and all be receive chemotherapy although there be a variety of treatment regime be use .
 some have previously undergo surgery to remove some or all of the breast tissue some be to undergo radiotherapy after the chemotherapy and some be expect to have surgery at a late date .
 for all but one of the woman this be first experience of chemotherapy .
 the woman be age between 35 and 68 all be in heterosexual relationship 12 be marry with the exception of one who identify as lesbian .
 we recognize the limit of a volunteer sample and recognize that such a small sample will represent only a select set of experience .
 however aim be to identify a number of key aspect of prepare for chemotherapy treatment and explore this in depth .
 women be interview before or at the beginning of treatment and again after course of chemotherapy have be complete .
 in this paper we focus on the analysis of the initial interview from the 19 woman in which they talk about expectation about the chemotherapy treatment and how they think they would respond to change in appearance .
 semi-structured interview be conduct by the author in the participant own home with the exception of two woman who preferred to be interview in a hospital set be tape-recorded and last approximately one hour .
 women be interview prior to commence treatment about expectation and concern about chemotherapy what do you understand by the term chemotherapy how do you feel about have and about how they think this might impact on appearance do you anticipate that the chemotherapy will change physical appearance or feeling about body how in what .
 other question in the initial interview focused on woman 's view of create a photographic record of experience and be not discuss here .
 the resultant datum be analyzed by adopt the widely use but seldom acknowledge method of thematic analysis which be use to identify analyze and report pattern or theme that reoccur across a datum set .
 thematic analysis have much in common with other form of analysis such as interpretative phenomenological analysis or ground theory which search for pattern or theme across a datum set but be not wed to a pre-existing theoretical framework which mean that it can be use flexibly see braun and clarke for an accessible discussion of thematic analysis .
 in the current study thematic analysis be use to identify recurrent pattern in woman 's experience of prepare for the side effect of chemotherapy treatment .
 the analysis proceed through a number of stage .
 firstly the datum be transcribe and two researcher read and re-read the transcript and note initial observation .
 secondly this initial observation be review to develop initial code which be then systematically apply to the datum set to identify all datum extract associate with this code .
 this code be review for consistency with the datum extract be all the datum extract coherent and relate and do they collectively represent the theme and for validity in relation to the whole datum set do the theme identify accurately represent the datum as a whole .
 finally the theme be give a final definition and a name that reflect content .
 three key theme be identify and this be discuss below .
 result and discussion .
 for many of the woman in this study like those in other study chemotherapy be often see as synonymous with hair loss .
 many woman find the thought of hair loss distressing but even those who seem little distressed or anxious about lose hair still put a great deal of think into anticipate how they would manage and cope with hair loss .
 the analysis reveal three key theme come to term with hair loss become ready and take control .
 each of this theme be discuss in turn .
 anticipating hair loss .
 this woman like those in other qualitative study report that one of first reaction to be tell that they will need chemotherapy be distress and anxiety about lose hair .
 many say this be the bad thing about the treatment and something that they be dread i just sort of sit there absolutely stun to think that i have to have chemo and initially and i will be honest with you first think be oh god i'm go to lose hair i didn't think about anything else i didn't think about be sick i didn't think about anything else god i'm go to lose hair .
 many be concern that they would feel unattractive alien or not like usual self see also gallagher 1997 .
 this be particularly true for woman who consider hair to be a special feature for example woman describe hair as a security blanket to hide behind as the one thing which they easily change to enhance appearance as something they would spend a lot of money on and as something which make them different from other woman .
 some be upset that other do not understand distress and think that they be vain .
 many be also concern that hair loss would make them visibly identifiable as a person-with-cancer and that they would subsequently lose privacy see also harcourt and frith in press richer and ezer rosman .
 however like rosman we find that not all woman react in this waysome accept hair loss as an inevitable consequence of treatment and even welcome the opportunity to re-invent image through wig and short hair-styles .
 this reaction be consider a form of affective rehearsal which gallagher 1997 describe the process of woman predict based on personal experience response to cancer and the meaning she assign to hair the intensity of distress hair loss will create .
 women anticipate hair loss they try out different emotional reaction and test the opinion of other in advance of actual hair loss .
 coming to term with the inevitability of hair loss .
 this theme describe the process of come to accept that hair loss be likely or inevitable and let go of the often unrealistic hope that hair might be retain .
 fear of hair loss mean some woman be initially reluctant to engage with the treatment i didn't want to have it chemotherapy .
 didn't want to lose hair do i .
 other hope that they would be one of the lucky few who will avoid hair loss at the back of mind you're hope you'll be the one person it doesn't happen to .
 medical research allow healthcare professional to predict with a fair amount of certainty which drug and treatment regimen produce the great likelihood of hair loss and when this loss will occur .
 women 's uncertainty and the oscillation between fear and hope end when this new be deliver .
 for example one woman describe how friend have try to comfort her with story about other who have undergo chemotherapy but have not experience hair loss but then consultant tell her that she would definitely lose own hair he actually sit down in front of me and say name you're go to lose hair then i come to term with it a bit much i think i almost have this think in head well maybe i won't not everybody do perhaps i might be lucky perhaps it might only go thin but when he actually look at me and he say you're go to lose hair you might keep eyebrow but you're go to lose hair then i start to come to term with it because i think now i can take step to be positive and do something about it .
 although often see as upset new this nevertheless allow woman to accept that they will lose hair and to start focusing on how to prepare manage and cope with this event .
 becoming ready .
 this theme describe the time energy and emotional resource which woman invest in explore how to manage hair loss before it have occur so that they can feel ready .
 chemotherapy-induced hair loss be an expect and anticipate event .
 the woman we interview be keen to tell us about the hat scarf and wig that they have obtain in preparation for hair loss i've already set myself up with one wig and i have another one in the pipeline come along and about the straight-forward information about the availability of wig and other head-coverings they receive from nurse and physician .
 while other study have note that woman cut hair or purchase wig william et 1999 gallagher 1997 they do not really explore why woman engage in this activity and what it mean to them .
 for the woman in this study this purchase be proudly present as evidence that they be come to term with the inevitability of hair loss and be actively engage in prepare for the process .
 trying on wig hat and scarf be see as a way of become ready for hair loss and gathering resource which be use when hair loss finally happen when i go to first chemo session i say where 's the wig lady i want to see the wig lady .
 and they say oh you'll see her at next one and i say no i won't i want to see today .
 i be absolutely adamant i know i wouldn't cope for three week think hair 's go to fall out and i've get no backup .
 so she come to see me and we order it then and there go through all the color and it be great and i feel really happy she say yeah it 's brilliant it 's just like so that be good and i buy some scarf which i consequently hate but i need them i just need to be ready really .
 for some simply have the wig and the scarf be enough to help them to feel ready for hair loss but other may want to try out camouflage to ensure that it actually work in actual fact i've just have a test run .
 i do put wig on ooh about four day ago i go up the shop and nobody look at me twice .
 nobody look at me twice .
 and i think this be go to be brilliant because i'm gonna feel really that 's good because when hair have go i'll be fine .
 building on the notion of affective rehearsal this be see as a kind of behavioural rehearsal where they gather resource and practice strategy to manage hair loss .
 a second form of behavioural rehearsal be to cut hair short in anticipation of don't really want to wake up one morning and find a load of hair on pillow and stuff like that .
 i think i'd get really upset then .
 um whereas it 's very short um i don't think i'd notice it so much i'll do it gradually .
 having a short haircut be also a way of prepare other work colleague spouse and child so that it won't be such a great shock when it actually happen and so that it be a slow process rather than suddenly shave it off .
 this process of behavioural rehearsal then allow some woman to manage anxiety about hair loss about loss of privacy to practice strategy for camouflage or disguise hair loss to reassure themselves that they have the material and emotional resource to cope with hair loss when it happen and to prepare other for alter appearance .
 taking control .
 this theme capture the way in which woman talk about engage in strategy to feel much in control of hair loss .
 despite the range of information available to patient at what point in treatment hair loss might be expect to occur advice about wear hat to catch lose hair woman still perceive the timing and nature of hair loss to be uncertain since they know for sure how it will be for them until it happen .
 shaving hair rather than wait for it to fall out be see as a way of exert some control over this process i'm start to think i might take it all off before i start rather than wait the thought of wake up one morning and find a great clump on the pillow or in the shower or whatever i think that would be much distressing than do it at a time i choose .
 being in control of hair loss be able to decide when and where it will occur be see as important especially when so many aspect of the disease the treatment and side effect seem outside of personal control see brennan it shaving hair be control definitely about the control aspect cos i won't be able to control how i feel internally if i feel sick i'm gonna feel sick there 's nothing i can do about it .
 tiredness be the other thing but that be one thing i can decide when it hair go what i do about it whether i hide it with a wig whether i wear a hat or a scarf or whatever you know .
 this woman be think carefully not only about how to control the process of hair loss but also about how to control and manage own emotional reaction .
 recognizing that hair loss may be distressing or frightening they be actively engage in find way to alleviate distress in order to deal with loss .
 shaving hair be see as a proactive step something which the individual decide to do to let go of the hair rather than to lose it 's way of get back at cancer as well .
 chemo 's not go to take hair if anyone be go to have anything to do with hair loss i will do it myself .
 hair loss be re-conceptualized as a process which can be actively precipitate rather than passively await as something which be within control .
 general discussion anticipatory coping .
 we argue that this preparation be see as a form of anticipatory copingcoping which involve the preparation for manage the stressful consequence of an upcoming event which be likely or certain to occur .
 anticipatory coping have receive relatively little research attention but it be likely to involve some of the same activity as proactive coping cope effort to prevent potentially stressful event but targeted towards an anticipate event .
 this activity include resource accumulation information initial appraisal assessment of the impact of the event initial coping effort activity to prevent or minimize the event and elicitation and use of feedback see aspinwall and taylor 1997 .
 the woman in this study be actively accumulate resource wig hat scarf many make an initial appraisal of the event as likely to be distressing and consider the impact that it might have on feeling about themselves and interaction with other .
 they engage in cope effort such as affective rehearsal and behavioural rehearsal and seek feedback either in front of the mirror or in front of other to determine the relative success of this strategy .
 such anticipatory coping appear to be a routine part of the way in which this woman respond to the new that they be likely to experience alopecia .
 although few study examine anticipatory coping at least one suggest that this type of cope may be a routine part of manage stressful or difficult event relate to illness and may be useful to avoid problem as well as to manage stressful event .
 the strategy that this woman describe be similarly useful in enable them to deal with the stress of lose hair as well as avoid problematic interaction and help to manage the emotional consequence of hair loss .
 somerfield 1997 have argue that cope research need to focus on a particular stressor in this case hair loss rather than the broad cope with chemotherapy or cope with cancer diagnosis and that descriptive research such as the one present here can inform the selection of relevant variable for much streamlined theory-guided research .
 we argue that a focus on anticipatory coping be a useful starting point for explore far individual difference in the efficacy of cope effort do woman who engage in much or much elaborate anticipatory coping experience little stress and anxiety when hair actually fall and that affective rehearsal and behavioural rehearsal be important element in anticipatory coping .
 control .
 research demonstrate that many of the activity woman engage in to manage and cope with impending hair loss be value because they allow woman to gain control over situation .
 control be a central concept in psychological theory of emotional well-being adjustment and cope but few study explore the myriad of different strategy that individual cancer patient might use in order to compensate for lack of control .
 one exception be thompson et 's 1993 study with cancer patient with a range of different diagnosis .
 they find that although there be a strong relationship between perception of control and successful adjustment the arena for control be important .
 perceived control over daily emotion and physical symptom be much important than control the disease relationship or medical care .
 the woman in this study may have no control over cancer or the side effect of treatment but they find way of gain control by shave hair before it fall out by cut it short to emotionally prepare themselves and other for see them without hair and by practicing wear wig and scarf .
 it be important to them as it be to the participant in thompson et al 's study to have perceive control over the much mundane day-to-day problem .
 self-generated feeling of control like this have be find to be associate with successful coping well emotional adjustment and improve performance .
 understanding that woman use anticipatory coping strategy to enhance sense of perceive control may be an important resource for physician and nurse .
 there be much exist good practice in the provision of information about the side effect of treatment such as leaflet produce by charity such as breast cancer care1 and the provision of indeed innovative development such as the use of computerized hair imaging software which allow woman to see themselves with a new hairstyle without hair prior to change and promote self-acceptance continue to extend the availability of useful resource .
 however much information leaflet and recommendation focus on the physical side effect rather than on the emotional or psychosocial impact of the treatment .
 for example in review if this area batchelor recommend that health care professional encourage woman to shave head once hair loss become pronounce because this be associate with little pain or discomfort and because it promote quick re-growth .
 similarly woman with long hair should be encourage to have hair cut short to disguise thin and also minimize the problem of shed long hair which may create anxiety 157 .
 research suggest that cut and shaving hair may serve a multitude of additional function to prepare self and other for the loss of hair to gain control over the timing of hair loss to feel proactive .
 by fail to consider some of the psychological motivation behind particular practice and strategy healthcare professional may miss the opportunity to help patient to enhance feeling of control .
 we suggest that nurse and healthcare practitioner consider way of help patient to perceive control over day-to-day issue and use the language of control in information leaflet and interaction with patient .
 in this paper we have focused specifically on cope with one particular aspect of chemotherapy treatmenthair lossand have identify a range of different strategy that people adopt but much than this we have reveal something about why people adopt this different strategy such as to gain control .
 if this information be share with other patient they would have a well understanding of the benefit to be gain by adopt different strategy as well as an understanding of the range of different strategy available .
 a clear understanding of the psychosocial impact of an alter appearance due to chemotherapy treatment by health care professional and patient alike would aid the process of anticipatory coping and would provide patient with a wide range of resource and strategy for cope .
 we recommend the development of explicit guidance for healthcare professional and the adaption of patient information to well reflect this psychosocial concern .
 acknowledgement .
 the author would like to thank the woman who volunteer to take part in this study and who share experience of chemotherapy with us and consultant oncologist jeremy braybrooke .
 tentatively define t-ic have be identify in hematologic brain breast prostate liver pancreas and colon cancer .
 t-ic which be self renew and can differentiate into multiple lineage be highly tumorigenic in immunodeficient mouse .
 according to the hypothesis t-ic be not only the source of the tumor but also may be responsible for tumor progression metastasis resistance to therapy and subsequent tumor recurrence .
 breast t-ic bt-ic can be enrich by sort for low cell by select for side-population sp cell that efflux hoechst dye or by isolate spherical cluster of self-replicating cell mammosphere from suspension culture .
 however this method purify both t-ic and some epc al-hajj et and ponti et .
 since mirna regulate differentiation and can function as either tumor suppressor or oncogene to regulate tumor development and prognosis we look at whether difference in mirna expression might distinguish bt-ic epc from much differentiate mirna be know to contribute to preserve stemness of embryonic stem es cell because es cell deficient in mirna processing be maintain .
 previous study have show an overall reduction in mirna expression in embryonic or tissue stem cell and change in specific mirna have be associate with es cell self renewal and differentiation .
 moreover mirna-expression profile can help characterize the stage subtype and prognosis of some cancer .
 because bt-ic be relatively resistant to chemotherapy we be able to generate large number of bt-ic-enriched cell by in vivo passage of breast cancer cell in nod scid mouse treat with chemotherapy .
 we find that mirna expression be globally reduce in bt-ic compare with much differentiate cancer cell .
 in particular the let-7 family be not express by bt-ic generate from cell line or 1 patient tumor and increase with differentiation .
 by express let-7 but not other differentially express oncomirs in bt-ic or antagonize let-7 in much differentiate cell we find that let-7 regulate the key feature of breast cancer stem cellsself renewal in vitro multipotent differentiation and the ability to form tumor that can be serially transplant and metastasize in nod scid mouse .
 protein expression of the let-7 target ras and hmga2 be high in bt-ic and silence during differentiation .
 ras silence contribute to loss of self renewal but do not affect multipotent differentiation while silence hmga2 enhance multilineage differentiation but have no effect on self renewal .
 result chemotherapy selectively enriches for self-renewing breast cancer cell .
 resistance to chemotherapy distinguish t-ic from other cancer cell .
 to examine whether chemotherapy might enrich for bt-ic we compare the proportion of in vitro self-renewing cancer cell in 1 breast cancer from patient who receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy with tumor resected from chemotherapy-naive patient table s1a .
 freshly isolate cell be cultured in suspension to generate mammosphere a method for culturing both mammary gland progenitor cell and bt-ic .
 mammosphere generation be an in vitro assay of self-renewal potential .
 after 15 day of tumor cell from 5 neoadjuvant chemotherapy patient form mammosphere as compare with from 8 chemotherapy-naive patient a 14 fold increase p figure 1a .
 furthermore 1 mammosphere from chemotherapy patient be passaged for at least eight to ten generation endpoint of the study while those from patient without chemotherapy vanish within two to three generation .
 in the 1 breast cancer of tumor cell from chemotherapy-treated patient but only of cell from untreated patient be low the phenotype ascribed to bt-ic al-hajj et and ponti et p figure 1b .
 enrichment of bt-ic by chemotherapy be confirm by study pair specimen from seven patient obtain by biopsy prior to chemotherapy and at surgery follow neoadjuvant chemotherapy .
 only of tumor cell before chemotherapy but of cell obtain after chemotherapy form mammosphere after 15 day of suspension culture p figure s1a .
 similarly the proportion of low cell be fold high in sample after chemotherapy p table 1b .
 in another patient group with metastatic pleural effusion who have receive chemotherapy 2 6 year before pleural cancer cell be highly enrich for low cell table s1c .
 this datum from three cohort suggest that chemotherapy selectively enhance the proportionate survival of bt-ic .
 full-size image 127k high-quality image figure breast cancer cell under pressure of chemotherapy are enriched for bt-ic .
 a and b 1 breast cancer from patient who receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy be substantially enrich for self-renewing cell with the expect property of bt-ic compare to untreated patient .
 representative image show increase number of mammosphere after 15 day of culture a and a high percentage of cell in freshly isolate tumor b from a patient who receive tumor resected from eight patient who do not receive chemotherapy and five patient who receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy be analyzed table s1a .
 c similarly passaging the human breast cancer line skbr3 in epirubicin-treated nod scid mouse enrich for cell with bt-ic property .
 sk-3rd cell from the third passage xenograft form much mammosphere than the parent line and the mammosphere can be repetitively passaged in vitro and be large .
 shown be number of 1 2 generate from dissociate 1 sphere and 3 generate from dissociate 2 sphere mammosphere on day 15 from p compare with skbr3 .
 error bar correspond to mean sd .
 d mammosphere generate from single-cell culture of sk-3rd and skbr3 image on indicate day of suspension culture .
 shown be the mean sd number of cell sphere for each p compare with skbr3 .
 error bar correspond to mean sd .
 e the majority of freshly isolate sk-3rd cell be as expect for bt-ic while cell with this phenotype be rare in skbr3 representative datum of five experiment show .
 f sk-3rd and skbr3 cell cultured as sphere be .
 when they differentiate in adherent culture they gradually assume the parental sbkr3 phenotype but somewhat much rapidly for skbr3 mammosphere .
 g when sk-3rd sphere be dissociate remove from growth factor and plate on collagen for 8 hr top they do not express luminal muc1 and ck-18 or myoepithelial ck-14 and -sma differentiation marker while after far differentiation bottom they develop into elongate cell with subpopulation staining for either differentiate subtype .
 h freshly isolate sk-3rd cell be enrich for hoechstlow sp cell compare with skbr3 cell .
 view within article .
 we take advantage of this find to see if we enrich for bt-ic by consecutively passaging breast cancer cell in nod scid mouse treat with chemotherapy .
 mice inject in the mammary fat pad with skbr3 cell be treat with epirubicin weekly for 12 week until xenograft reach 2 cm diameter .
 cell from the third passage sk-3rd be cultured in suspension to generate mammosphere .
 the number of mammosphere reflect the quantity of cell capable of in vitro self renewal while the number of cell sphere measure the self-renewal capacity of each sphere-generating cell dontu et and dontu et .
 sk-3rd form fold much sphere than skbr3 versus p figure 1c .
 moreover dissociate sk-3rd cell from 1 mammosphere generate an equivalent proportion of 2 and 3 sphere demonstrate their in vitro self-renewing potential .
 sk-3rd mammosphere culture be maintain for passage while within three to four passage skbr3 mammosphere fail to generate 2 sphere become adherent and differentiate .
 this finding be confirm by single-cell cloning figure s2 .
 sk-3rd mammosphere be observe begin at day 5 and increase in size and cell number until day 15 .
 mammosphere be passaged time from single-cell sk-3rd clone .
 however mammosphere do not appear until day 15 in parental skbr3 cell and be about 18 fold fewer in number and much small .
 in addition freshly isolate sk-3rd form 4 fold much colony than skbr3 in a colony-forming assay that correlate with self renewal figure s3 .
 seventy-two percent of freshly isolate sk-3rd cell compare to of skbr3 cell be .
 moreover of sk-3rd sphere cell be .
 when cell be plate on collagen under differentiate condition in serum only remain by day .
 similarly of freshly isolate mammospheric cell from skbr3 be while after day of differentiate condition maintain this phenotype .
 furthermore sphere-derived sk-3rd and skbr3 cell but not parental skbr3 cell highly express stem cell-associated oct4 which decline with in vitro differentiation figure s4 .
 therefore sk-3rd and skbr3 mammospheric cell not only have self-renewing and differentiate capability in vitro but also have the phenotype expect of bt-ic .
 skbr3 mammosphere cell however may be subtly different from sk-3rd mammosphere although they initially have similar proportion of cell the skbr3-derived mammosphere lose this phenotype much rapidlyon day 3 of differentiation of skbr3 mammospheric cell versus of sk-3rd cell be cd24 staining be bright on differentiate skbr3 cell and a large proportion of skbr3 cell be cd44 .
 taken together with the slow growth and small size of skbr3 mammosphere and inability to passage them as sphere this datum suggest that skbr3 mammosphere may have undergo a first step toward lose self-renewing capacity .
 a key property of t-ic be multipotency .
 mammospheric sk-3rd cell be round and do not stain for cytokeratin ck or other differentiation marker such as mucin 1 muc1 and -smooth-muscle actin -sma even after they adhere to collagen for 8 hr .
 however after far differentiation they develop into elongate cell with subpopulation staining for either myoepithelial ck14 -sma or luminal epithelial ck18 muc1 marker .
 as expect the differentiate cell also lose self-renewal potential since only of cell maintain under differentiate condition for day form sphere an 11 fold reduction compare to cell grow as sphere .
 t-ic be also believe to be resistant to chemotherapy in part from overexpressing an atp-binding cassette half-transporter abcg2 .
 this property correlate with the ability to expel dye define as a flow cytometry side population sp .
 freshly isolate sk-3rd cell contain 26 fold much sp cell than skbr3 versus n 5 p figure 1h .
 in line with this mammospheric sk-3rd but not differentiate sk-3rd or skbr3 stain for abcg2 by immunoblot figure s4 .
 reduced abcg2 be not a direct consequence of chemotherapy as a similar reduction be observe in mammospheric sk-3rd and chemotherapy-unexposed mammospheric skbr3 .
 abcg2 mrna parallel difference in protein not show .
 moreover mammospheric sk-3rd and skbr3 cell be relatively resistant to epirubicin compare to differentiate sk-3rd or skbr3 not show .
 an important t-ic feature be efficient xenograft formation .
 when mammospheric sk-3rd cell be inoculate into nod scid mouse eight out of ten mouse generate tumor .
 all animal inject with or fold much cell develop tumor .
 by contrast no mouse inoculate with or skbr3 cell develop tumor while tumor develop in only three out of ten animal inoculate with skbr3 cell .
 therefore mammospheric sk-3rd cell be at least fold much tumorigenic than skbr3 .
 importantly mammospheric tumor cell from sk-3rd xenograft be serially passaged into 2 and 3 recipient while the unselected cell not table s2 .
 the potent tumorigenic capability of mammospheric sk-3rd cell upon serial xenotransplantation suggest in vivo self-renewing capacity .
 table 1a .
 incidence of tumor and metastasis by mammospheric sk-3rd cell and skbr3 cell in nod scid mice .
 number of cell inoculated2 tumorslung metastasisliver metastasistumorslung metastasisliver metastasistumorslung metastasisliver metastasis mammospheric sk-3rd parent .
 full-size table .
 p p p compare with untransduced mammospheric sk-3rd cell .
 view within article .
 it have be hypothesized that only cancer cell with t-ic property can initiate metastases .
 we therefore compare lung and liver metastases of sk-3rd and skbr3 xenograft .
 five week after inoculation with mammospheric sk-3rd cell massive lung metastases be visualize by microscopy in eight out of ten mouse but no mouse inject with the same number of skbr3 develop microscopic lung metastases analyzed when 1 skbr3 tumor reach the same size 2 cm diameter as sk-3rd xenograft .
 similarly mammospheric sk-3rd cell generate liver micrometastases in six out of ten mouse but skbr3 cell produce none .
 to determine whether chemotherapy be need to maintain a stable percentage of self-renewing cell we compare mammospheric sk-3rd-generated tumor far passaged in nod scid mouse treat or not with chemotherapy sk-4th and sk-4th respectively .
 sk-4th contain an equal percentage of sphere-forming cell as sk-3rd table s3 and figure 1 suggest that the proportion of bt-ic have already plateaued by the third passage .
 in contrast sk-4th cell generate 8 fold fewer sphere imply that selective pressure from chemotherapy be require to maintain the proportion of self-renewing cell in vivo .
 when or mammosphere-selected sk-4th or sk-4th cell be inject into nod scid mouse tumor develop in virtually all animal and the majority of this metastasized table s3 .
 there be no significant difference in tumor formation or metastasis by mammospheric sk-3rd sk-4th or sk-4th cell while unselected sk-4th cell whether from chemotherapy-exposed mouse or not generally do not generate tumor from this number of cell .
 therefore chemotherapy select for self-renewing bt-ic and prevent differentiation in xenograft but be not responsible for bt-ic tumor-forming capacity .
 collectively this datum show that in vivo passaging of breast cancer line under chemotherapy pressure enrich for bt-ic .
 at least of sk-3rd cell display all the expect property of t-ic in vitro stable mammosphere formation growth under nonadherent condition multipotent differentiation phenotype and drug-expelling sp and a high rate of form tumor capable of serial transplantation as xenograft .
 mammospheric cell have reduced let-7 .
 because mirna help regulate cell differentiation we take advantage of ability to obtain large number of self-renewing cell to compare mirna expression in mammospheric sk-3rd with their in vitro differentiate progeny and skbr3 .
 much of the 52 mirna express above background in any of the line have reduce expression in mammospheric sk-3rd cell either freshly dissociate figure 2a lane 1 or briefly adhere 8 hr lane 2 compare with cell differentiate under adherent condition 1 day lane 3 day lane 4 or skbr3 lane 5 .
 during differentiation much reduce mirna gradually increase to the level in skbr3 .
 cluster analysis of multiple sample show a clear distinction between mammospheric versus differentiate cell and skbr3 not show .
 use anova analysis on normalize chip datum we identify a number of mirna expression in mammosphere be significantly different from the differentiate and parent cell .
 among them the let-7 family emerge as the much consistently and significantly reduce mirna .
 some other mirna include mir-16 mir-128a and show the same expression pattern as let-7 be initially identify as a mirna that regulate elegans development where it target key gene include lin-41 hbl daf-12 pha-4 and a ras homolog .
 there be 11 human let-7 family member differentially express in different tissue that be believe to have redundant target and function .
 let-7 which be downregulated in some human cancer and associate with poor lung cancer prognosis target ras and hmga2 which encode a dna-binding protein implicate in mesenchymal cell differentiation and tumor formation .
 this paper focused on let-7 because it be a know tumor suppressor .
 full-size image 155k high-quality image 1422k figure let-7 mirna i reduced in mammospheric sk-3rd cell and 1 tumor bt-ic .
 a c mirna array analysis show mirna differentially express in sk-3rd cell cultured in mammosphere 1 or adhere for 8 hr 2 24 hr 3 or day 4 and parent skbr3 5 .
 much mirna include all let-7 homolog be reduce in sk-3rd cultured in mammosphere or just adhere for 8 hr and increase during differentiation to similar level as skbr3 .
 northern blot probe for let-7 b and qrt-pcr amplify for let-7a c mean sd relative to u6 verify the microarray result .
 spheres derived from either sk-3rd or skbr3 show similar low expression of let-7 that increase gradually begin 1 day follow induction of differentiation and plateaus within 6 p p as compare with cell cultured in sphere .
 error bar correspond to mean sd .
 d let-7 function assay by luciferase assay be negligible in sk-3rd but increase upon differentiation or infection with lenti-let-7 p compare with mammospheric sk-3rd .
 transfection with let-7 aso reduce endogenous or exogenous let-7 activity p compare to untransfected cell .
 error bar correspond to mean sd .
 e and f h-ras e and hmga2 f target of let-7 be highly express in mammospheric sk-3rd but not in differentiate adherent sk-3rd or skbr3 protein assay by immunoblot relative to -actin .
 infection with lenti-let-7 or lentivirus encoding ras- or hmga2-shrna but not gfp-shrna or vector suppress h-ras or hmga2 expression respectively in mammospheric sk-3rd cell while transfection of skbr3 with let-7 aso augment h-ras and hmga2 protein .
 g i in addition tumor from eight untreated patient and five patient treat with neoadjuvant chemotherapy be enrich for bt-ic by sort for cell or by growth as mammosphere .
 tumor deplete of bt-ic by adherent growth or by exclude cell also have reduce let-7 compare to adjacent normal breast tissue .
 facs analysis and northern blot probe for let-7 and u6 be show in g and h respectively for representative untreated table s1 and neoadjuvant chemotherapy treat patient .
 mean sd of relative let-7 expression for all sample analyzed by qrt-pcr i datum for each patient be in figure s9a .
 infection with lenti-let-7 increase let-7 in bt-ic-enriched 1 p p compare with sample deplete of cell .
 view within article .
 to verify the reduction of let-7 in mammospheric cell we perform northern blot use a probe that recognize all let-7 homolog and qrt-pcr use let-7a-specific primer .
 by both assay let-7 be barely detect in mammospheric sk-3rd do not change after 8 hr of adherence but begin to increase within 1 day and increase far over day of let-7 also be not express in skbr3 mammosphere and be upregulated upon in vitro differentiation with similar kinetic .
 therefore although we rule out the possibility that chemotherapy exposure alter property of pre-existing self-renewing cell reduce let-7 be not a consequence of chemotherapy or anchorage-independent growth but rather a corollary of self-renewal capacity .
 after day let-7 expression in the differentiate cell increase fold and be not significantly different from let-7 expression in skbr3 .
 reduction of some other tumor-related mirna mir-15a mir-16 mir-21 in sk-3rd sphere be also verify by qrt-pcr use specific mirna primer figure s6 .
 mir-15a be reduce 3 fold p and mir-16 4 fold p in mammospheric sk-3rd as compare with skbr3 or differentiate mir-21 be reduce by but not significantly p .
 to investigate let-7 function we transfected a luciferase reporter contain a let-7 target 3utr sequence into mammospheric or differentiate sk-3rd and skbr3 .
 luciferase activity be suppress by in differentiate sk-3rd p and by in skbr3 p while there be no suppression in sk-3rd .
 infection of sk-3rd with a lentivirus express let-7a enhance mirna expression and function comparably to that of the differentiate cell figure s7 and 2d .
 cotransfection of differentiate sk-3rd cell skbr3 or lenti-let-7a-infected sk-3rd with a let-7a antisense oligonucleotide aso significantly reduce the suppression in luciferase activity by endogenous or exogenous let-7 p figure 2d .
 transfection of let-7a aso in skbr3 reduce not only let-7a but also let-7b let-7e and let-7i expression by qrt-pcr analyzed use specific primer p figure s8 .
 because of the close homology within the let-7 family a single aso may be able to inhibit the entire family or many of member .
 since ras and hmga2 be know let-7 target we compare expression in the three cell line .
 h-ras and hmga2 protein be highly express in mammospheric sk-3rd cell but greatly reduce in differentiate sk-3rd cell and skbr3 .
 other ras protein be not detect in this cell not show .
 expressing lenti-let-7a or shrna against either gene in mammospheric sk-3rd reduce h-ras and or hmga2 to the level in differentiate cell while let-7 aso in skbr3 upregulated both protein substantially .
 however h-ras and hmga2 mrna measure by qrt-pcr do not differ significantly among the three cell line not show .
 therefore let-7 silence ras and hmga2 expression by inhibit translation as previously report johnson et and mayr et rather than by cleave mrna .
 moreover reduce let-7 in mammospheric cell lead to ras and hmga2 overexpression .
 let-7 i reduced in bt-ic from clinical cancer specimen .
 reduced let-7 in sk-3rd or skbr3 mammosphere suggest that let-7 might be reduce in 1 bt-ic .
 we therefore examine let-7 expression by northern blot and qrt-pcr in bt-ic select from the three group of patient specimen .
 bt-ic be enrich by culture as mammosphere or by sort freshly isolate cell for cell .
 both the mammosphere and sort cell compose mostly of bt-ic and epc al-hajj et and ponti et from patient in table s1a have reduce let-7 as compare with either adherent cell or tumor cell that be not p .
 figure 2h show northern blot from a representative patient who receive chemotherapy and one who do not while figure 2i and s9a depict the mean standard deviation sd and individual patient datum respectively of qrt-pcr analysis of let-7a u6 let-7 expression in normal adjacent breast tissue be high than in 1 cancer cell deplete of bt-ic consistent with a prior report that breast cancer express little let-7 than normal breast tissue .
 transduction with lenti-let-7 but not with lentivector enhance let-7 expression comparably to that of the 1 cancer deplete of bt-ic p .
 although there be much bt-ic in the patient who receive chemotherapy figure 1a and 1b and table s1 let-7 reduction in mammosphere or sort cell be comparable whether or not patient receive preoperative chemotherapy .
 reduced let-7 in 1 cancer cell enrich for bt-ic either by growth as mammosphere or by sort for bt-ic phenotype be also confirm and show to be independent of chemotherapy exposure or whether the tumor be 1 or metastatic in sample from the other two patient group figure s9b and s9c .
 therefore reduce let-7 be an intrinsic property of bt-ic epc .
 reduced let-7 i required to maintain mammosphere .
 to test whether low let-7 be important for self renewal we study the effect of enforce let-7a expression by mammosphere assay .
 sk-3rd cell infect with lenti-let-7a form fold fewer mammosphere than uninfected sk-3rd or sk-3rd cell infect with empty or egfp-shrna lentiviruses .
 mammosphere formation be also delay and the mammosphere that form be 2- to 3 fold small in let-7a-expressing sk-3rd cell than control sk-3rd cell .
 importantly let-7a-transduced mammosphere only be passaged for eight to ten generation whereas the untransduced sphere by passaged for at least generation 1 year .
 therefore let-7a weaken self-renewal capacity under nonadherent condition .
 conversely transfecting let-7 aso into parental skbr3 or differentiate sk-3rd cell enhance mammosphere formation 6 fold .
 let-7 aso also greatly increase the percentage of sp and cell in differentiate sk-3rd and skbr3 figure .
 full-size image 69k high-quality image 495k figure sk-3rd cell engineered to express let-7a lose ability to form mammosphere and proliferate less under differentiating conditions .
 a and b single-cell culture of dissociate sk-3rd cell infect with lenti-let-7 or lentivirus-expressing ras-shrna but not gfp-shrna or empty vector form fewer mammosphere a and mammosphere that do form develop much slowly and be reduce in cell number b p compare to untransduced cell .
 error bar correspond to mean sd .
 c conversely skbr3 and differentiate sk-3rd cell transfected with let-7a but not control lin-4 aso generate fold much mammosphere .
 error bar correspond to mean sd .
 d bt-ic-enriched cell sort for low phenotype from 1 chemotherapy-naive breast tumor have a markedly high capacity to form mammosphere compare with cell .
 transduction with lenti-let-7 but not lentivector reduce mammosphere p compare with untransduced cell .
 mammosphere formation by let-7-transduced bt-ic be also significantly reduce on serial passage but be stable in untransduced cell .
 e sk-3rd cell infect with lenti-let-7 and to a lesser extent ras-shrna lentivirus proliferate little during in vitro differentiation than untransduced or control cell as measure by 3h -incorporation p p compare with untransduced sk-3rd .
 view within article .
 enforced let-7 expression also reduce mammosphere form by 1 patient bt-ic .
 when sort cancer cell from chemotherapy-naive patient be infect with lenti-let-7 the percentage of 1 mammosphere from single-cell culture decline 3 fold figure 3d p .
 moreover although the untransduced cell maintain stable sphere-forming capacity upon in vitro passage the number of 2 and 3 sphere form by the corresponding let-7-expressing cell decline with each passage figure 3d p .
 although other tumor-related mirna mir-15a and mir-16 be reduce in mammospheric sk-3rd figure 2a and s6 exogenously express this mirna to skbr3 level do not alter mammosphere formation p figure s6 .
 moreover although bcl-2 have be identify as a target of mir-15a 16 transduction of mir-15a or mir-16 in mammospheric sk-3rd do not reduce bcl-2 protein in this cell suggest that effective targeting may vary with the cellular context figure s6 .
 reduced let-7 maintain proliferation but inhibits differentiation .
 another property of self-renewing cell be the potential to expand under differentiate condition .
 mammospheric sk-3rd proliferate at half the rate of skbr3 as measure by 3h incorporation .
 under differentiate condition sk-3rd proliferation increase 7 fold from baseline to a peak on day 4 and then fell by day 8 to a level somewhat high than that of skbr3 p .
 when sk-3rd cell be transduced to express let-7 peak 3h -incorporation decline by demonstrate that let-7 reduce the proliferative potential of differentiate precursor cell .
 another t-ic hallmark be undifferentiated state and potential for multilineage differentiation .
 mammospheric sk-3rd express neither myoepithelial ck14 nor luminal epithelial ck18 while skbr3 be and figure s11a and s11b .
 after day of differentiation much sk-3rd cell express differentiation marker but remain let-7a overexpression significantly p reduce the proportion of lin cell to in mammospheric sk-3rd and to in differentiate sk-3rd .
 control lentiviruses include a lentivirus express ras-shrna see below have no effect on maintain the lin population under differentiate condition .
 conversely let-7 aso greatly increase the percentage of residual ck14ck18 cell in both differentiate sk-3rd and skbr3 p figure s11c .
 similarly let-7 transduction of cell isolate from patient cancer reduce the proportion of ck14ck18 cell 2 fold p figure s11d .
 therefore low let-7 help maintain the undifferentiated status and proliferative potential of mammospheric cell from a cell line and of 1 tumor bt-ic .
 silencing ras or hmga2 partially recapitulates the effect of let-7 .
 we next examine whether the effect of reduce let-7 on promote self renewal and multilineage differentiation be attributed to ras or hmga2 .
 ras-shrna or hmga2-shrna reduce h-ras or hmga2 respectively in sk-3rd to the level in skbr3 or differentiate sk-3rd and comparably to that by let-7a-lentivirus .
 sk-3rd with silence h-ras form about half as many mammosphere as untransduced or vector-transduced sk-3rd but about three time much than cell infect with lenti-let-7a .
 moreover the mammosphere be intermediate in size 46594 cell versus 745155 cell for untransduced sk-3rd and 27782 cell for let-7a-transduced sk-3rd on day figure 3b .
 silencing ras also reduce sk-3rd proliferation under differentiate condition but much little than express let-7a figure 3e p on day 4 of differentiation the peak of proliferation .
 silencing ras unlike overexpressing let-7a in either mammospheric or differentiate sk-3rd do not reduce the proportion of undifferentiated cell lack ck figure s11 .
 by contrast silence hmga2 do not alter 2 mammosphere formation by mammospheric sk-3rd cell p versus control vector figure 4a but slightly reduce sk-3rd proliferation p figure 4b although not as much as let-7a transduction .
 however hmga2-shrna reduce the proportion of undifferentiated lin cell in sk-3rd grown either as sphere or under adherent condition p figure 4c and 4d .
 moreover the reduction in lin cell by hmga2-shrna in both mammospheric and differentiate sk-3rd be comparable to that mediate by express let-7a p figure 4c and 4d .
 therefore reduce let-7 regulate different aspect of stemness by silence multiple let-7 inhibit self renewal in part by regulate ras while it cause bt-ic differentiation by silence hmga2 .
 full-size image 35k high-quality image figure silencing hmga2 reduces the undifferentiated subpopulation and proliferation of sk-3rd cell but does not significantly alter mammosphere formation .
 a single-cell culture of dissociate sk-3rd cell infect with lenti-hmga2-shrna form a comparable number of mammosphere as uninfected cell or cell infect with lenti-gfp-shrna or lentivector .
 lenti-let-7 be use a positive p as compare with untransduced sk-3rd .
 b silencing hmga2 with lenti-hmga2-shrna reduce proliferation of sk-3rd cell on day 4 of in vitro differentiation in adherent culture peak of proliferation but not as much as lenti-let-7 transduction .
 cell proliferation be measure by 3h -incorporation p p compare with untransduced sk-3rd .
 c and d transduction with lenti-hmga2-shrna or lenti-let-7 but not with lenti-gfp-shrna or vector similarly reduce the proportion of lin cell in sk-3rd cell cultured in mammosphere c or under adherent differentiate condition for day d .
 p compare with vector transduced cell .
 error bar correspond to mean sd .
 view within article .
 let-7 expression inhibits tumor formation in nod scid mice .
 we next assess the effect of enforce let-7 expression on tumor formation .
 although eight out of ten mouse inoculate with sk-3rd cell and all mouse inject with great number of sk-3rd cell form tumor significantly fewer tumor develop from let-7-expressing mammospheric sk-3rd cell .
 moreover the let-7a-expressing tumor grow much slowly than the untransduced or control sk-3rd tumor the tumor reach 2 cm in diameter 25 33 day after they become palpable while the control sk-3rd tumor reach that size in 12 day .
 similarly let-7-expressing mammospheric cell give rise to fewer tumor when they be serially passaged in vivo table s2 suggest that let-7 inhibit self-renewing capacity in vivo as well as in vitro .
 ras-shrna slightly reduce tumorigenesis but not as much as let-7a .
 full-size image 139k high-quality image 1677k figure mammospheric sk-3rd cell are more tumorigenic than skbr3 in nod scid mice and let-7 expression by sk-3rd cell suppresses tumor outgrowth .
 a tumor volume be measure after mammary fat pad inoculation of leave middle or right skbr3 cell or mammospheric sk-3rd cell that be untransduced or transduced with vector or to express let-7 or ras-shrna .
 the number in the legend indicate the number of mouse who develop tumor .
 mammospheric sk-3rd cell be much tumorigenic than skbr3 cell .
 overexpression of let-7a and to a lesser extent ras-shrna lead to fewer tumor and the tumor that arise grew much slowly .
 error bar correspond to mean sd .
 b tumor that grow in mouse inoculate with cell have similar histology by hematoxylin and eosin staining he magnification but the sk-3rd tumor either untransduced or transduced with vector have high expression of h-ras and c and a high proliferative index by pcna staining and d than skbr3 tumor .
 infection of sk-3rd with lenti-let-7 reduce ras expression almost as much as silence ras but let-7 much effectively reduce p p compare with untransduced tumor .
 error bar correspond to mean sd .
 view within article .
 the tissue structure and cell morphology of tumor generate from skbr3 mammospheric sk-3rd or sk-3rd express let-7a or ras-shrna be not grossly different .
 however h-ras be much highly express in mammospheric sk-3rd xenograft than in skbr3 tumor .
 transduction of sk-3rd with lenti-let-7a or ras-shrna but not lentivector significantly reduce h-ras in the tumor to the level of skbr3-derived tumor .
 in keep with fast growth a high proportion of sk-3rd-derived than skbr3-derived tumor cell stain for proliferate cell-associated antigen pcna .
 transduction of sk-3rd with let-7a-lentivirus also significantly reduce pcna staining in the xenograft p although not to that of the skbr3-derived tumor .
 ras-shrna also significantly reduce the pcna index p but not as effectively as lenti-let-7 .
 thus lack of let-7 enhance sk-3rd cell tumorigenicity in part by modulate hras .
 let-7 expression inhibits tumorigenesis by 1 breast cancer cell .
 to assess whether let-7 reduction be also important for tumorigenesis by 1 cancer cell sort cell from eight chemotherapy-naive patient cancer be evaluate for xenograft formation .
 injection of 1 cell generate tumor in six out of eight mouse while no tumor develop in mouse inject with the cell that be not from the same patient .
 increasing the number of inject cell to result in tumor in eight out of eight mouse but still no tumor in mouse that receive cell lack this phenotype .
 moreover when cancer cell passaged in nod scid mouse be facs-sorted again for cell they be serially transplant for two far passage without reduce tumorigenicity .
 lenti-let-7 transduction not only significantly reduce tumorigenicity but also reduce tumor formation upon serial transplantation .
 therefore enforce let-7 expression in 1 bt-ic interfere with both tumor initiation and in vivo self renewal .
 table 1b .
 incidence of tumor from 1 breast cancer cell serially transplanted in nod scid mice .
 cells5 cell 1 tumor cellspassage 1passage 21 tumor cellspassage 1passage 2 8 lentivector6 lenti-let-72 8 lin .
 full-size table .
 p p p compare with untransduced low cell .
 for the initial inoculation each mouse be inoculate with sort cell transduced or not from a different chemotherapy-nave patient .
 the clinical feature of this eight patient be describe in table s1a .
 for subsequent passage cell be isolate sort and transduced from mouse inject with tumor cell from the two patient lenti-let-7 transduced cell establish xenograft .
 view within article .
 let-7-expressing tumor are less likely to metastasize .
 we also evaluate whether enforce let-7 or ras-shrna expression in sk-3rd affect metastasis by examine the lung and liver when xenograft reach 2 cm in diameter the same size use to assess metastasis of untransduced xenograft .
 lenti-let-7 infection of sk-3rd reduce both the number of mouse with lung metastases to two out of ten mouse and the average lung weight by p figure 6b .
 metastases be not only small but also disperse among alveoli suggest reduce clinical severity .
 the number of lung tumor cell quantify by qrt-pcr for hhprt in mouse with metastases be also little in animal inject with let-7a-expressing sk-3rd compare with mouse inoculate with vector-transduced cell p figure 6c .
 expressing ras-shrna in sk-3rd modestly but significantly reduce lung metastasis but be little effective than let-7 .
 full-size image 88k high-quality image 1331k figure mammospheric sk-3rd cell metastasize to the lung and liver unlike skbr3 and infection with lenti-let-7 inhibits metastasis .
 a he staining of the lung and liver of mouse implant with sk-3rd cell either untransduced or transduced with lentivector lenti-let-7 or lenti-ras-shrna or skbr3 .
 arrow indicate focal metastasis .
 b mean sd wet lung weight in tumor-bearing mouse n group .
 c expression of hhprt mrna relative to mouse gapdh by qrt-pcr .
 the number indicate the number of animal in each group of ten with lung or liver metastasis .
 the analysis for b and c exclude animal without metastases to the relevant organ .
 nd not p p compare with untransduced tumor .
 view within article .
 similarly in the liver let-7 expression or ras silence reduce the number of mouse with liver metastasis by and respectively .
 this be confirm by measure little hhprt mrna in the liver of mouse inoculate with let-7-transduced cell who have micrometastases three out of ten mouse and a reduction in mouse inject with ras-shrna-transduced cell four out of ten mouse respectively as compare with those implant with vector-transduced cell 5 mouse p figure 6c .
 therefore let-7 reduce mammospheric sk-3rd cell metastasis to both lung and liver .
 this reduction be only partially due to change in ras .
 reduced metastasis by let-7-transduced cell be not due to a difference in 1 tumor size because all tumor-bearing animal be sacrifice when the tumor diameter reach 2 cm but result from the slow growth of the 1 tumor or alter metastatic potential of let-7-expressing cell .
 this study distinguish between this possibility .
 discussion .
 evidence for the cancer stem cell hypothesis have grow as t-ic have be identify in an increase number of malignancy .
 however because t-ic be rare within tumor they be difficult to study and little be know about what regulate critical ability to self renew and initiate tumor .
 we find that breast tumor from chemotherapy-treated patient be highly enrich for cell with the property of bt-ic .
 we take advantage of bt-ic chemotherapeutic resistance to generate a highly malignant breast cancer cell line sk-3rd by sequential in vivo passage in epirubicin-treated nod scid mouse .
 sk-3rd be enrich for cell that display all the tentatively define property of bt-ic include enhance mammosphere formation multipotent differentiation chemotherapy resistance and bt-ic phenotype .
 based on in vitro mammosphere form assay and the proportion of sp cell we estimate that of sk-3rd cell be t-ic and that the remain cell which be also be largely epc .
 mammospheric sk-3rd cell be fold much tumorigenic in nod scid mouse than the parent line metastasize and be capable of serial xenotransplantation .
 the key property of mammosphere from sk-3rd coincide with those of bt-ic obtain by sort cell from 1 breast cancer .
 sk-3rd cell provide virtually unlimited number of cell for study bt-ic .
 a similar approach of in vivo chemotherapy might also be use to select t-ic from other breast cancer line or possibly for other tumor .
 because of the potential for accumulate specific idiosyncratic mutation in any line the relevance of any result obtain with such bt-ic enrich cell would however need to be confirm use sort 1 cancer cell .
 chemotherapy-exposed patient should provide a mean for isolate large number of 1 bt-ic to study what regulate stemness .
 finding that neoadjuvant chemotherapy treatment select for the survival of bt-ic and epc although not surprising in light of know resistance to chemotherapy be somewhat disturbing .
 the selective outgrowth of little differentiate cell may be one reason that neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy be not always effective at prevent late tumor recurrence .
 one contribute factor for chemotherapy selection of bt-ic whether in neoadjuvant chemotherapy patient or epirubicin-treated xenotransplanted mouse be increase expression by bt-ic of the drug efflux transporter abcg2 which provide bt-ic with a selective survival advantage .
 increased abcg2 expression in bt-ic support early study that take advantage of drug efflux to enrich for bt-ic in sp cell .
 multiple mechanism likely influence selective survival under chemotherapy include preferential activation of dna repair pathway in t-ic as be show for glioma .
 we take advantage of ability to obtain large number of self-renewing cell to study change in mirna expression during in vitro differentiation .
 mammospheric sk-3rd cell express substantially little mirna than differentiate sk-3rd or the parent cell .
 a global reduction of mirna expression have previously be note for both es and cancer cell relative to normal tissue .
 we do not investigate the mechanism for the global reduction in mirna in bt-ic .
 one possible contribute factor might be reduce mirna processing as have be describe in mouse embryonic development .
 difference in mirna expression be not an immediate consequence of anchorage-independent growth since adherence for 8 hr do not substantially alter mirna expression .
 within a day of be place under differentiate condition however much mirna express in the parental line be induce although some take long to be express .
 virtually absent expression of let-7 distinguish the tumor-initiating sk-3rd cell from differentiate progeny and the parent line .
 moreover lack of let-7 be require for self renewal in vitro and tumorigenicity in vivo .
 overexpression of let-7a in sk-3rd reduce self renewal and proliferative capacity and convert highly malignant and metastasizing t-ic into little malignant cell .
 conversely antagonize let-7 with aso in differentiate sk-3rd or skbr3 enhance sphere formation .
 in contrast overexpressing other oncomirs differentially underexpressed in sk-3rd mammosphere mir-15a mir-16 and mir-21 have no effect on in vitro self renewal .
 although let-7 appear to play a major role in regulate stemness regulate expression of other differentially express oncomirs include those list above as well as mir-17 and mir-222 will undoubtedly contribute to regulate the distinct pathway require for tumor initiation transformation proliferation invasion metastasis apoptosis and chemo radiotherapy resistance .
 this will be a good system to study the role of other oncomirs in breast cancer initiation .
 this result with sk-3rd and skbr3 suggest that reduce let-7 might regulate the fate of bt-ic much generally .
 because cell line expand in vitro and or in vivo might accumulate mutation that might make them different from 1 tumor we test the importance of let-7 reduction in enrich bt-ic obtain from 1 breast cancer by sort or mammosphere culture .
 regardless of how bt-ic be isolate 1 bt-ic express substantially little let-7 than corresponding population of cell deplete of bt-ic .
 moreover express let-7 in cell from 1 breast cancer reduce mammosphere formation and proliferation in vitro and tumor xenograft formation .
 because mammosphere and cell contain both bt-ic and epc we be unable to define the exact point at which let-7 begin to be express .
 result suggest that let-7 expression begin at a very early stage of differentiation .
 reduced let-7 be an intrinsic property of bt-ic and possibly epc and not a consequence of exposure to chemotherapy or anchorage-independent growth .
 both unexposed skbr3 mammosphere and enrich bt-ic from chemotherapy-naive patient generate either by sort or growth under sphere-forming condition have similarly reduce let-7 as comparably derived cell that have be expose to chemotherapy .
 let-7 have be postulate to work as a tumor suppressor by silence ras and hmga2 .
 we confirm this finding in sk-3rd and skbr3 cell where h-ras other ras homolog be not express and hmga2 protein but not mrna correlated inversely with let-7 expression .
 hras and hmga2 be high in sk-3rd but low in differentiate sk-3rd and skbr3 .
 moreover exogenous let-7a significantly knock down h-ras and hmga2 .
 increased h-ras and hmga2 have be report in breast cancer and correlate with poor prognosis .
 h-ras be increase in of human breast cancer but mutation be rare suggest the possibility of posttranscriptional regulation .
 hmga2 overexpression in tumor be think to be primarily secondary to chromosomal translocation that delete the hmga2 3utr with multiple let-7 recognition site .
 study suggest that hmga2 overexpression can also be secondary to reduce let-7 expression .
 ras and hmga2 each regulate different aspect of stemness .
 ras appear to be important for self renewal since silence ras reduce mammosphere formation clonal expansion and tumorigenicity but have no effect on cell differentiation .
 hmga2 on the other hand appear to help maintain multipotency since silence hmga2 reduce the proportion of undifferentiated cell but do not affect in vitro self renewal .
 in support of this hmga2 be overexpressed in embryo and poorly differentiate tumor .
 let-7 thus act as a master regulator of multiple aspect of stemness presumably by silence multiple target some of which remain to be identify .
 other direct let-7 target include gene implicate in cell-cycle regulation include cdc25a cdk6 and cyclin d .
 comparing mirna and mrna expression by and cell may help define mirna network and additional let-7 target in bt-ic .
 the mrna comparison be recently report .
 because let-7 regulate multiple oncogene and much than one t-ic pathway therapeutic use of let-7 mimic might be attractive for differentiate resistant t-ic within breast cancer and possibly other tumor .
 mimicking let-7 be much potent than specifically silence one or a few oncogene with sirna let-7 mimic potentially be use as single agent or combine with conventional chemo radiotherapy .
 since let-7 be express in normal breast tissue and other differentiate cell introduce it exogenously should not trigger unintended toxicity to noncancerous cell .
 a corollary of the cancer stem cell hypothesis be that metastases may also arise from t-ic .
 in support we find that cell with the bt-ic phenotype be prevalent in metastatic pleural effusion .
 moreover xenograft metastases be reduce by let-7 expression in parallel with other bt-ic property .
 an alternate hypothesis be that metastatic tumor originate when cell in a 1 tumor undergo an epithelial-mesenchymal transition emt .
 result suggest that this two seemingly contrary idea be not mutually exclusive .
 in fact let-7 be poorly express in mesenchymal but highly express in epithelial tumor .
 the opposite be true of the let-7 target hmga2 which be highly express in embryo mesenchymal cell and mesenchymal tumor .
 therefore reduce let-7 may link t-ic and emt .
 let-7 gene map to site with frequent chromosomal instability in cancer and let-7 be poorly express in lung and colon cancer .
 downregulation of let-7 in breast tumor compare to normal breast have be report in a previous microarray analysis .
 this be confirm by present study where let-7 be reduce by in 1 cancer compare with adjacent normal breast .
 however this difference be small when compare to the 4 fold reduction in let-7 in bt-ic compare to bt-ic-depleted 1 cancer cell .
 t-ic and epc within tumor might contribute to the moderate reduction of let-7 in the bulk of breast cancer cell .
 measuring let-7 reduction in breast tumor might serve as a surrogate for the frequency of bt-ic or other poorly differentiate cell in the tumor and provide useful prognostic information about the likelihood of chemotherapy response or relapse .
 in fact low let-7 and high hmga2 expression strongly correlate with poor prognosis in advance ovarian cancer .
 despite evidence for t-ic in an increase array of cancer the cancer stem cell hypothesis remain a hypothesis .
 result need to be consider in light of evidence for possible phenotypic heterogeneity of t-ic as recently suggest for glioma and of the heterogeneity of breast tumor cell that develop after tumor initiation secondary to additional mutation or epigenetic change .
 an alternate possibility to the cancer stem cell hypothesis also need to be keep in mind .
 a recent study suggest that t-ic might be an artifact of xenotransplantation consist of the minority of cell capable of survive with the support of mouse rather than human growth factor supply by the xenogeneic tumor microenvironment .
 in fact when mouse lymphoma cell generate in e-c-myc transgenic mouse be transplant into congenic mouse lymphoma cell lack stem cell marker also form tumor .
 however the strong adaptability of the tentatively define t-ic to a xenogeneic microenvironment may also be an indicator of ability to seed congenic tumor site .
 it may be that the multipotency of the t-ic provide a mean to generate not only the tumor but the support niche cell necessary to sustain it as have recently be show for human es cell .
 experimental procedure .
 detailed procedure be provide in the supplemental data .
 1 tumor .
 tumor be obtain from 25 female patient with biopsy-diagnosed breast carcinoma include case of 5 cancer and 5 case of recurrent breast cancer with pleural metastasis table s1 .
 twelve 1 breast cancer patient receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy follow by modified radical mastectomy and eight 1 cancer case be treat with resection without chemotherapy .
 specimen be obtain by ultrasound-guided vacuum-assisted vacora biopsy bard biopsy system tempe az in seven patient before neoadjuvant chemotherapy .
 pleural fluid be obtain by pleural puncture from five case of recurrent cancer with pleural metastasis .
 all sample be immediately mechanically disaggregated digest with collagenase as describe and filter through a filter .
 tumor cell be sort after staining with fitc-anti-cd44 pe-anti-cd24 and nontumor cell be deplete with a cocktail of lineage marker antibody .
 generation of sk-3rd and sk-4th cell line .
 skbr3 cell atcc be passaged in nod scid mouse by inject cell into the mammary fat pad of 5-week-old mouse .
 epirubicin 8 mg kg pharmacia and upjohn be inject into the tail vein weekly .
 single-cell suspension of tumor xenograft remove when tumor reach 2 cm in diameter be isolate as describe .
 dissociated cell be passaged in epirubicin-treated nod scid mouse as above .
 mammosphere culture .
 cell cell ml be cultured in suspension in serum-free dmem-f12 biowhittaker supplement with b27 invitrogen ng ml egf bd bioscience bovine serum albumin sigma and 4 g ml insulin sigma .
 to propagate sphere in vitro sphere be collect by gentle centrifugation dissociate to single cell as describe and then cultured to generate mammosphere of the next generation .
 differentiation .
 cell dissociate from sphere be plate at cell ml on 6 well plate precoated with collagen iv bd bioscience in dmem supplement with fcs without growth factor and passaged when they reach confluence .
 acknowledgment .
 we thank robert clarke and anthony howell manchester uk for advice .
 women born with mutation in either brca1 or brca2 be at significantly high risk of develop breast and ovarian cancer than be woman in the general population but the magnitude of risk to woman in the former group be controversial .
 study have show that mutation in brca1 be associate with up to an risk of breast carcinoma by the age of year and besides the life-time risk mutation of the brca1 and brca2 tumour suppressor gene increase the risk of early onset breast carcinoma .
 brca1 mutation carrier have an risk for brca2 mutation carrier for develop breast cancer before the age of 39 year and the risk increase to brca2 at age 49 year .
 the cumulative risk be estimate to be by the age of year .
 for adult woman in an at-risk family identification of cancer-predisposing mutation be a necessary first step towards improve treatment and prevention .
 hereditary breast cancer be inherit in an autosomal-dominant way a woman with an abnormal brca susceptibility gene have a chance of pass that gene on to child .
 women in this situation be therefore confront with the reality that child might develop breast cancer at some point in life .
 if this child have not reach legal age the parent might raise the question whether genetic testing for breast cancer susceptibility gene in minor be useful .
 however unlike testing for other cancer for which preventive or therapeutic strategy exist li fraumeni syndrome familial adenomatous polyposis or von hippel-lindau have information about one 's brca1 2 mutation status before reach the legal adult age be not consider medically necessary for disease prevention or early detection .
 guidelines for the early detection of breast cancer advise that testing should begin no early than the age of year recommend surveillance technique such as breast self-examination and clinical breast examination .
 existing guideline also stress that genetic testing should be offer at the moment health benefit expand but should not be offer before that time .
 predictive genetic testing be recommend only when establish effective and important medical treatment can be offer or when testing provide scope for treatment which to any essential degree prevent defer or alleviate the outbreak of disease or the consequence of the outbreak of disease .
 the rationale behind this option be that predictive testing in minor for adult-onset disease should be delay until the person be old enough to make an inform choice .
 in addition early identification of a breast cancer susceptibility gene in minor be associate with psychological social and ethical concern .
 the objective of this article be to provide a systematic and detail review of the attitude of minor parent relative of affect individual and healthcare professional towards predictive genetic testing for breast cancer .
 we will specifically investigate what this stakeholder consider as the preferred or ideal age for such testing and the reason they advance to support position .
 we will analyze whether the position recommend in the review guideline be share by the various stakeholder .
 little be know about the extent to which the party involve agree on the professional recommendation concern cancer susceptibility testing .
 for the sake of clarity we define minor as all person who have not reach legal age which in much country be 18 year .
 what distinguish child from adolescent be the gradual development of a child 's cognitive skill and moral reasoning and the fact that as child progress through successive state of development they become capable of great participation in decision about own welfare .
 when discuss adolescent we refer to minor who be able to participate in the decision as an autonomous individual or minor who have decision make capacity .
 when discuss child we refer to minor who be consider to be unable to do so .
 .
 data source .
 we search the database pubmed google scholar psycinfo biological abstract francis eric anthropological index online web of science and sociological abstract use one of the follow keyword attitude view survey questionnaire response opinion belief interview perspective reasoning focus group conviction value idea emotion thought feeling the actual search use the keyword in truncate form in combination with the term brca or breast or ovarian .
 in addition a referral to minor be also examine through the follow keyword child childhood adolescent infant young minor pediatric or paediatric .
 relevant reference within pertinent article be also consult .
 the search include literature index up to .
 study selection .
 the abstract of the retrieve article be read and study be include for far consideration if they be publish in a peer-reviewed journal appear in english and if they report the attitude of minor parent relative of affect individual or healthcare professional towards predictive genetic testing for breast cancer in minor .
 study that describe attitude towards population screening in minor be exclude .
 quantitative as well as qualitative study be include .
 data extraction and synthesis .
 as there be considerable heterogeneity in population study and measure use in candidate article we consider it inappropriate to pool the datum in a meta-analysis and instead present them in summary form .
 result .
 we identify 14 study about attitude towards genetic testing for hereditary breast cancer in minor .
 this study be very heterogeneous and use a variety of study population study design sample size and study measure .
 the quality of the study also vary .
 an overview of the study be present in table in table 2 we describe the attitude towards predictive genetic testing for breast cancer in minor and summarize the question ask and the response to this question .
 various study distinguish two different situation the case of adolescent request a genetic test for brca and the case of parent request such a test for child .
 based on this study we provide an overview of the argument use for and against such testing in both case .
 it be not aim to make a qualitative appraisal of every argument or to describe how many person defend this argument .
 table .
 aim design method measure and limitation of study assess the attitude towards predictive testing in minor with a family history of breast cancer .
 authorsaimdesignmethods of datum collectionmeasureslimitations rowley and loader to assess knowledge and attitude of area obstetrician -gynaecologists towards dna testing for genetic susceptibility to breast surveyquestionnaireattitudes about testing for a genetic susceptibility to breast information might have biased the respondent answer representativeness of the sample .
 to assess the attitude of unaffected first-degree relative of woman with breast or ovarian cancer regard the ethical issue of autonomy and confidentiality as they relate to surveytelephone structure interview .
 subjects be recruit by contact an affect relative identify through patient list of the georgetown university medical center and the washington hospital variable familial risk genetic testing exposure knowledge about genetic testing dispositional optimism information-seeking cope style attitude about ethical issue in genetic sample comprise primarily middle class and white no post-counselling and education questionnaire .
 to determine what consumer and provider would want to discuss about breast cancer susceptibility testing and preferred role in testing surveyquestionnaire .
 consumers be recruit by ask the name and address of unaffected first-degree relative of woman list in the john hopkins and maryland statewide tumor registry .
 nurse practitioner be identify through the nurse practitioner association of maryland .
 physician be randomly select from the american medical association physician variable question relate to pre-test discussion pre-test decision-making and post-test describe to determine the view of daughter at increase risk of develop breast cancer regard the benefit and risk of participate in genetic susceptibility research and to determine the mother view about enrolling daughter in genetic susceptibility studymothers and daughter be interview separately and in much case simultaneously and be audiotaped .
 the interview be transcripted and interviewhypothetical interest in participate in genetic testing research be often high than actual interest limitation on the generalizability of finding all of the family in the sample be white .
 to study the attitude toward brca1 testing for child among individual who have receive test result for a family-specific brca1 surveytelephone interview of woman approximately 4 7 month after receive genetic test about genetic testing for minor demographic variable general attitude toward genetic testing general psychological distress test-related distress breast ovarian or cancer-related surgery history family cancer history personal brca1 mutation pre- and post-testing measurement sample be not representative in term of race and religion .
 lucassen and houlston to investigate the nature and degree of variation that exist in practice and attitude towards genetic testing for breast cancer susceptibility surveyquestionnaire be send to 57 geneticist in the united kingdom represent all specialist registrar and consultant involve in cancer be ask about four clinical describe campbell and ross to study healthcare professional attitude regard parental access to and confidentiality of predictive genetic testing of studyall interview be record and tape transcribe .
 data be examine be ask about how they would respond to family request predictive testing for various condition about policy recommendation as well testing preference for own child assume that they have a positive family history about attitude towards question relate to confidentiality of genetic sample n 25 sample be a convenience sample .
 to examine adolescent attitude towards genetic testing for breast surveystudents be ask to participate in an anonymous survey .
 parental or guardian consent be seek .
 information about three hereditary disorder be provide .
 afterwards the student attitude be variable attitude towards genetic testing for three different information about socio-economic background and insurance coverage .
 individual be not at high risk for this condition .
 limited to a population of a suburban high school .
 welkenhuysen and evers-kiebooms to investigate attitude of midwife and nurse regard predictive testing for hereditary breast surveymail questionnaire be send to a sample of midwife and nurse randomly select from the membership file of midwife and nurse variable opinion about the acceptability of a predictive response rate from the sub-sample of nurse .
 welkenhuysen and evers-kiebooms to investigate the reaction of general practitioner gp nurse and midwife concern the cancer risk in a high-risk surveymail questionnaire be send to a sample of gp midwife and nurse randomly select from the membership file of respective professional variable a hypothetical scenario involve breast cancer follow by open-ended response rate from the sub-sample of nurse .
 to identify attitude toward genetic surveya questionnaire be use for subject at three different hospital .
 nurse and medical student be approach when they be on duty on different floor oncology patient relative be survey in outpatient chemotherapy unit wait room non-oncological patient group be approach while they be wait in other outpatient wait variable attitude towards genetic describe campbell and ross to explore parental attitude and belief about genetic testing of child for condition that present throughout the life group studyfocus groupsfive case of vary degree of controversy be explore begin with the least focus group represent a convenience sample .
 only a few respondent with personal experience with genetic condition .
 to examine psychological and family function health attitude and belief about genetic risk in adolescent surveyquestionnaireschild behaviour checklist youth self-report form family assessment measure breast cancer no genetic testing be conduct no correlation can be make with actual genetic risk small sample far preclude analysis of subtype based on family history of cancer .
 riordan and loescher to examine attitude of medical student at a single university towards genetic testing in surveyquestionnaire be distribute in the mailbox of medical clinical vignette demographic be limited and possibly biased .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 table .
 summary of find study population and sample size of include study .
 authorssummary of findingsstudy populationsample size and response rate rowley and loader opinion be divide about the appropriateness of offering testing to daughter under the age of 18 year of a woman harbour a brca1 strongly agree agree somewhat neither agree nor disagree and disagree of all five rochester usa hospital have obstetric the 124 area prenatal-care provider be present for the presentation and complete the attitude questionnaire .
 much of the woman agree that parent should be able to decide whether minor child should have a genetic test agree strongly and agree age 18 75 year with at least one first-degree relative with breast and or ovarian cancer and no personal history of woman no response rate mention .
 of woman if find to have a susceptibility would test a 13-year-old daughter of both physician and nurse practitioner think it be important to test the 13-year-old daughter of a woman susceptible to inherit breast woman plus nurse practitioner and physician in five speciality in consumer 426 584 nurse practitioner 143 179 physician 296 .
 the study observe that mother and daughter have a range of reaction to the prospect of enrolling child and adolescent in genetic susceptibility research that perception of benefit and risk be fairly concordant between mother and daughter and that daughter initially identify no risk of participate but perception of the risk and benefit evolve during the course of and daughter from 12 breast cancer family recruit primarily through the breast center at john hopkins mother daughter dyads be interview .
 of the 218 study participant 57 agree with the statement that child under the age of 18 year should have the opportunity to be test for brca1 gene mutation 133 do not agree 21 either respond that they be not sure or it depend and 7 either do not know or decline to answer the question .
 among the 218 study participant report have child under the age of 18 year .
 of this individual only 18 note that they would want own child test for a brca1 mutation while do not endorse this who be test for a brca1 mutation and learn mutation status from a certify genetic counsellor .
 they belong to an extensive utah-based kindred of northern european descent with a know cancer-susceptibility mutation in individual 133 woman and 85 man participate .
 no response rate mention .
 lucassen and houlston 16 47 of the respondent be prepare to offer predictive testing to a 15-year-old girl ask for a predictive test 23 47 be not prepare to do so 7 47 do not know what action they would geneticist in the united kingdom who deal with cancer 57 geneticist 47 complete questionnaire be receive .
 campbell and ross regarding the access to presymptomatic genetic testing for breast cancer in adolescent with a family history of the disease 1 25 of the clinician would encourage testing 4 25 would prohibit testing 25 would permit testing in all circumstance and 25 would permit but discourage professional geneticist and paediatrician geneticist from different institution or practice site 12 paediatrician from 9 different institution or practice site .
 no response rate be mention .
 much girl want to be test for familial breast cancer .
 girls who have a relative with breast cancer be significantly much willing to be test than be other girl p .
 the main reason give by girl against genetic testing for breast cancer be that knowledge would make them too nervous in grade 12 attend a suburban high school in barrington rhode 672 student 361 complete the questionnaire .
 welkenhuysen and evers-kiebooms agreement be high when a 16-year-old adolescent request a predictive test for breast cancer median 5 than when parent request predictive testing of 5-year-old child median 3 and nurse in 119 midwife and 881 nurse 69 midwife and 293 nurse respond .
 welkenhuysen and evers-kiebooms of the gp and of the nurse midwife argue that a 2-year-old daughter at risk for breast cancer be too young for a test .
 on the other hand of the gp and of the midwife nurse think that a predictive test for the daughter would be nurse and midwife in 356 gp 881 nurse and 69 midwife 215 gp 69 midwife and 293 nurse respond .
 if the survey respondent have an increase cancer risk would have child choose individual in three different hospital in turkey include patient without cancer caregivers of cancer patient senior medical student and individual participate 38 patient without cancer 51 caregivers of cancer patient 35 senior medical student and 55 nurse .
 campbell and ross there be widespread interest 9 of 11 focus group in testing child for the breast cancer recruit individual in the suburb of chicago .
 caucasian as well as afro-american be intensively focus group comprise 4 12 respondent .
 overall there be respondent 18 male and 84 female .
 of the 55 mother daughter pair in which the mother have be treat for breast cancer of the adolescent daughter and of the mother would take a brca gene with a previous history of breast cancer and a control group without a history of breast cancer and adolescent woman with a previous history of breast cancer and 55 woman without a history of breast cancer .
 riordan and loescher of student would agree to test a 7-year-old for a brca1 breast cancer predisposition would agree to test a 17-year-old for the same disorder .
 student who have already take a genetic course be little willing to provide testing to a student at the university of 435 student 135 complete the questionnaire .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 adolescents request a genetic .
 argument for testing .
 three main argument be describe in favour of provide a predictive genetic test for hereditary breast cancer upon the request of adolescent .
 firstly various healthcare professional argue that adolescent can be consider competent and able to give consent to treatment or investigation .
 secondly various stakeholder referred to the potential psychological benefit .
 a clinical geneticist mention that genetic testing in minor can lead to potential reassurance and potential lifestyle chance usage of the contraceptive pill and planning .
 some midwife and nurse mention such benefit as planning life well remove uncertainty and prepare oneself psychologically .
 especially mother who have breast cancer or who be at increase risk for breast cancer emphasize psychological benefit that might stem from relief associate with a negative test result .
 thirdly some study referred to the medical benefit of early detection and preventive measure .
 in a survey of adolescent girl wish to be test state that in the event of a positive result they would submit to frequent breast examination and to early mammogram .
 argument against testing .
 four main argument be describe against genetic testing upon the request of adolescent .
 firstly some healthcare professional indicate that they would require both the consent of the parent and the adolescent before proceeding with genetic testing .
 secondly various study referred to the potential negative psychological consequence of genetic testing for breast cancer in adolescence .
 some clinical geneticist fear that testing affect the self-image of the adolescent if the test result be positive .
 various study report that respondent fear that testing lead to increased anxiety or stress in adolescent undergo testing .
 also one study report substantial concern about potential stigmatization .
 thirdly various study report that respondent feel that there be no immediate medical benefit in perform predictive genetic testing in minor for breast cancer .
 as a clinical geneticist put it she be likely to have year before it do become imminent and circumstance may have dramatically change by then .
 it be hard to see how any immediate decision for example life plan would be influence by knowledge of carrier status at 15 risk be negligible at this age .
 in an interview study mother who have breast cancer before the age of year or who be at increase risk for breast cancer question the value of have genetic test result in the absence of an effective intervention .
 in the absence of immediate medical benefit some clinical geneticist advise much time for reflection .
 some adolescent consider themselves also too young to get test .
 fourthly some clinical geneticist referred to the fact that testing might lead to a slippery slope thin end of wedge .
 why not a mature 12 year old .
 parent request a genetic test for .
 argument for testing .
 three main argument be describe in favour of perform a genetic test upon the request of parent .
 firstly in some study some respondent referred to the advantage of early detection and the start of preventive measure breast self-examination clinical breast examination or diet modification at an early age .
 secondly some midwife and nurse referred to the fact that testing in childhood can remove uncertainty can prepare the child psychologically or can prepare the child for the future .
 thirdly some midwife and nurse referred to parent right to know because it be about the health of own child .
 argument against testing .
 three main argument be describe against genetic testing for inherit cancer-predisposing mutation .
 firstly some study referred to the absence of immediate medical benefit and the potential for many healthy year before medical implication may appear .
 secondly some midwife and nurse indicate that know one 's carrier status can lead to add psychological burden on the child and the parent a dark future and a danger of stigmatization .
 thirdly some study referred to personal autonomy a child 's right not to know and a child 's right to decide later in life .
 discussion .
 substantial proportion of adolescent be interested in learn whether they be at risk for familial breast cancer .
 the attitude of healthcare professional geneticist as well as paediatrician or obstetrician gynaecologist about testing adolescent for breast cancer diverge .
 for example a survey of clinical geneticist deal with cancer genetic in the show that of the respondent would offer predictive testing to a 15-year-old girl mother carry a pathogenic brca1 mutation who be mature for age and who be well inform about the risk of such a test .
 forty-nine percent of respondent would not do so and do not know what action they would take .
 the split in opinion be relate to the complexity of such a request and the balance between potential harm and benefit .
 respondents have stress that adolescent have decision-making capacity and be often mature enough to take control of own healthcare and to request a genetic test for familial breast cancer .
 several professional guideline relate to genetic testing in minor already acknowledge the gradual development of a child 's cognitive skill and moral reasoning .
 although it can be argue that parent consent for a genetic test be clearly advisable for adolescent this be legally not always require .
 in the for example the family law reform act contextualizes the british medical association 's bma recommendation on genetic testing .
 in this document the bma state that young people between 16 and 18 year old be presume to be competent to give consent to genetic testing without any necessity to obtain consent from parent or guardian .
 as with adult various professional guideline clearly recommend for adolescent that predictive genetic testing should only occur after pre-test counselling wherein complete information be provide about the disorder the value and limitation of the test result preventive and therapeutic option and the possible psychological impact of the test .
 it should also be question whether the test request be voluntary and come from a competent applicant .
 the argument use in favour of provide a predictive genetic test for an adult-onset disease at an adolescent on request be in line with the general evolution in medicine to take into account the adolescent 's maturity and decision-making competence .
 however no article include in this review adequately define this frequently use term neither provide recommendation for assess the psychosocial maturity of adolescent .
 as well professional guideline regard predictive genetic testing do not provide recommendation regard the assessment of a minor 's competence .
 it i of crucial importance that health professional who assess competence be skilled and experience in counsel young patient .
 many respondent of the study review here would probably refrain from request a predictive genetic test after be inform of the potential risk of such a test .
 for many adolescent interview in the study the invitation to participate in a genetic test for breast cancer be a hypothetical situation and be not the result of a careful assessment of the benefit and risk of such a test .
 this be illustrate by an interview study that show that all adolescent respondent regardless of age respond affirmatively when ask whether they would undergo testing because the interview focused on non-invasive sample collection rather than on assessment of risk and benefit of the test itself .
 in addition a study of individual who be test for a brca1 mutation and who learn mutation status from a certify genetic counsellor show significantly little support for testing than do a survey study of unaffected first-degree relative of breast cancer patient .
 a potential explanation for this find be that individual who have experience genetic counselling and testing themselves may be much aware of the potential risk and limitation than those who have not be counsel or test .
 this might also explain why relatively many respondent support genetic testing in minor for an adult-onset condition such as breast cancer although this be in opposition with the recommendation of the genetic society regard genetic testing for late-onset condition .
 various parent believe that detection in childhood might be advantageous for start preventive measure and might help prepare child and themselves psychologically for the future .
 therefore parent often believe they should have the right to give consent for genetic testing for brca in child .
 study of medical student obstetrician gynaecologist paediatric resident and medical student resident and practicing physician have show that various healthcare professional would agree to provide genetic testing for child upon parental request .
 the review survey indicate that various respondent apparently have fail to understand the potential risk relate to genetic testing and may have misunderstand the concept of genetic transmission or neglect to take them into account when consider the genetic testing of minor .
 a review of professional guideline indicate that all professional guideline similarly formulate that predictive genetic testing for adult-onset disease should only be perform for person of legal age except in case of disorder for which preventive or therapeutic action be initiate .
 this be based on the rationale that medical benefit to the child should be the primary justification for genetic testing .
 in the case in which testing be not urgent the outbreak of the disease occur only in adulthood and no therapy or preventive measure can be initiate before that time it have be stress that testing should be delay until the person be old enough to decide for him or herself .
 this cautious position towards testing of minor have be adopt because testing minor might harm self-esteem create depression or anxiety distort the family perception of a child or stigmatize a child .
 author have also stress that testing child can breach the confidentiality and the privacy of genetic information .
 it have also be argue that adolescent be disadvantaged in ability to make such a complex and potentially life-changing decision by incomplete brain maturation and associate underdevelopment of executive function .
 this finding underscore the need for genetic education and counsel when address request for testing minor .
 this might help to bring the expectation and assessment of risk to a realistic level .
 study have show that patient and healthcare professional that do not have daily involvement with clinical genetic may have exaggerate expectation about genetic testing .
 due to the focus on familial breast cancer the result of this study be consider representative for other adult-onset disease .
 research show for example that the accepability rating for predictive genetic testing in adolescent for an unpreventable and untreatable disease such as huntington disease be little favourable than for preventable and or treatable disease .
 this make clear that when discuss an adolescent or parental request for a predictive genetic test for an adult-onset disorder various individual element should be take into consideration availability of preventive and therapeutic measure for the disease severity of the disease utility of the genetic test the foresee onset of the disorder psychosocial ethical and legal concern .
 a recent study also show that the majority of clinical geneticist in the usa canada uk australia and new zealand agree with exist guideline regard predictive genetic testing in minor but only cite policy as a reason for refuse such test .
 this indicate that clinician be make individual judgment as oppose to simply follow suggest recommendation .
 conclusion .
 through systematic review we analyse common argument use in favour of or against predictive genetic testing of minor in the case of familial breast cancer .
 although an accurate comparison of the various study be very difficult due to the vary study population study design sample size and study measure analysis show that many respondent be not aware of the potential risk relate to such testing .
 various respondent take a position oppose to the position advance in professional recommendation .
 we also observe a lack of representative study on geneticist and genetic counsellor a professional group issue the much recommendation on genetic testing in minor .
 further research should be perform on the attitude of geneticist and genetic counsellor towards genetic testing in minor and adherence to professional guideline on that topic .
 reviewers .
 angus clarke institute of medical genetic cardiff university university hospital of wales heath park cardiff wales cf14 4xn united kingdom .
 fiona richard senior social worker department of clinical genetic the children 's hospital at westmead locked bag westmead nsw 2145 australia .
 acknowledgement .
 the research for this contribution be support by the eurogentest network of excellence of the eu fp6-512148 .
 recently it have be report that several common excipient can modulate the activity of the efflux transporter p-glycoprotein p-gp mdr1 .
 cremophor el tween and vitamin e tpgs increase the absorptive transport of the p-gp substrate by inhibit secretion-directed transport in caco-2 cell and enhance the intestinal absorption in the rat model .
 this study demonstrate that some excipient can change the disposition of several drug after administration by inhibit efflux transporter .
 however the extent of inhibition and specificity of excipient with respect to breast cancer resistance protein bcrp abcg2 which be the much recently discover an atp binding cassette abc harf-transporter remain unclear .
 bcrp be a drug efflux transporter of the abc family express in several normal human tissue and can actively extrude a wide variety of substrate from cell .
 bcrp be localized in the apical membrane of the intestinal epithelium and there be high mrna level for this protein than for other efflux transporter such as p-gp in the human jejunum .
 moreover the oral availability of several bcrp substrate be reduce markedly by bcrp .
 therefore bcrp might play a similar role to p-gp in regulate drug absorption in the small intestine and the absorption of drug secrete by a bcrp-mediated efflux system might be improve by inhibit bcrp action in the intestinal membrane .
 the aim of this study be to examine the effect of excipient on bcrp function .
 fifteen excipient currently use in pharmaceutical formulation be employ as test compound list in table to estimate the bcrp inhibitory effect of various excipient in vitro uptake study be perform use mardin darby canine kidney mdck -ii cell transfected with the gene for bcrp .
 in addition to compare the inhibitory effect of excipient between bcrp and p-gp function an in vitro uptake study be also perform in mdck-ii cell express p-gp .
 mitoxantrone which be transport by both bcrp and p-gp be use as a substrate of both transporter .
 table .
 description of test excipient structural characteristic and the cmc .
 excipientstructural characteristicsdetermined cmc m a cremophor elpolyoxyethylene 35 castor cremophor hydrogenated castor tween sorbitan tween sorbitan span span span pluronic p85polyoxyethylene 54 polyoxypropylene 39 vitamin e tpgsd--tocopheryl polyethylene glycol brij 4 lauryl myrj 52polyoxyethylene gelucire 44 14polyoxyethylene 32 lauric glycerides15 propylene glycol glyceryl triacetate ethyl oleate full-size table .
 a please refer to the methodology section for detail .
 view within article .
 material and method .
 3h mitoxantrone be purchase from moravek biochemical brea usa .
 and psc833 be donate from glaxosmithkline uxbridge middlesex uk and novartis pharma ag basel switzerland respectively .
 cremophor el tween brij and myrj 52 be obtain from sigma-aldrich louis mo usa .
 tween span span span propylene glycol glyceryl triacetate and ethyl oleate be obtain from wako pure chemical industry osaka japan .
 pluronic p85 and vitamin e tpgs be donate from basf parsippany nj usa and eastman wales uk respectively .
 gelucire 44 14 and cremophor be obtain from gattefosse gennevilliers france and nikko chemical co .
 tokyo japan respectively .
 all the other chemical be available commercially and of reagent grade .
 the critical micelle concentration cmc of each surfactant in transport buffer 118 mm nacl mm nahco3 mm kcl mm kh2po4 mm mgso4 mm hepes 5 mm glucose and mm cacl2 ph be measure use an automatic tensionmeter cbvp-a1 kyowa interface science saitama japan by the wilhelmy method at 37 c as describe .
 the cmc value be obtain from plot of surface tension versus the concentration of each excipient .
 parent mdck-ii cell and stably p-gp-expressing mdck-ii cell p-gp mdck-ii be seed in 24 well plate at a density of cell well and grow for two day in dulbecco 's modify eagle 's medium invitrogen carlsbad usa with fetal bovine serum sigma-aldrich and antibiotic antimycotic solution sigma-aldrich .
 the parent mdck-ii cell be infect with the recombinant adenovirus harboring the gene for green fluorescent protein gfp or the bcrp expression vector at multiplicity of infection .
 detail of the construction of this recombinant adenoviruses be describe previously .
 in p-gp mdck-ii cell medium be change on the second day .
 after two day in culture p-gp mdck-ii bcrp- and gfp-expressing cell bcrp mdck-ii and gfp mdck-ii respectively be use for uptake study and intracellular atp assay .
 the uptake study be carry out as describe with minor modification .
 the cell be incubate in the transport buffer contain nm 3h mitoxantrone .
 for inhibition study m an inhibitor of both bcrp and p-gp 5 m psc833 a p-gp inhibitor or appropriate concentration of excipient be add to the incubation buffer .
 at the designate time the uptake be terminate .
 cell be wash and lysed and then the radioactivity of the lysate be measure in a liquid scintillation counter beckman coulter fullerton usa .
 the remain cell lysate be use to determine the protein concentration by the method of lowry .
 in an uptake study of bcrp to inhibit the effect of endogenous p-gp in mdck-ii cell 5 m psc833 be add during incubation except for those cell treat with m .
 atp assay be carry out as describe with minor modification .
 the cell be incubate in the transport buffer contain mm sodium azide or excipient .
 cell be expose for 2 h then wash and lysed .
 atp in the lysate be determine by luciferin luciferase assay use atp fluorescence kit toyo ink tokyo japan .
 data be evaluate use analysis of variance anova and dunnett 's multiple comparison test .
 p be consider statistically significant .
 result and discussion .
 in the present study we have provide evidence for the first time that some excipient may have a considerable impact on the function of bcrp .
 the cmc of the 15 kind of excipient be show in table this study be perform at little or equal cmc of excipient such as surfactant to abolish micelle formation by the excipient .
 with regard to nonsurfactant excipient such as propylene glycol glyceryl triacetate and ethyl oleate the effect be investigate up to .
 the time profile for the uptake of mitoxantrone nm be investigate use bcrp mdck-ii p-gp mdck-ii and gfp mdck-ii cell control and be show in bcrp mdck-ii and p-gp mdck-ii cell demonstrate markedly reduce uptake of mitoxantrone at 2 h they be and time low than into the gfp mdck-ii cell respectively .
 full-size image 16k time-dependent uptake of 3h mitoxantrone in bcrp- a and p-gp-expressing mdck-ii cell b .
 uptake of 3h mitoxantrone nm be measure for and min use bcrp- or gfp-expressing cell control a and p-gp- or gfp-expressing cell b .
 in measure uptake via bcrp 5 m psc833 be add during the incubation to inhibit endogenous p-gp in mdck-ii cell .
 each point and bar represent the mean n 3 .
 where vertical bar be not show the be within the size limit of the p p significant difference .
 view within article .
 the uptake of mitoxantrone for 2 h in the presence of 15 kind of excipient be determine use bcrp mdck-ii and gfp mdck-ii and be show in 2 a .
 increase the uptake of mitoxantrone time into bcrp mdck-ii whereas it have only negligible effect in the gfp mdck-ii .
 of 15 excipient we find that five cremophor el tween span pluronic p85 and brij markedly increase the uptake of mitoxantrone in bcrp mdck-ii cell while they be little effective in gfp mdck-ii suggest that this be potent bcrp inhibitor .
 full-size image inhibitory effect of various excipient on the uptake of 3h mitoxantrone in bcrp- a and p-gp-expressing mdck-ii cell b .
 uptake of 3h mitoxantrone nm be measure for 2 h in the presence or absence of excipient and positive control .
 as positive control cell be treat with m or psc833 5 m .
 in measure uptake via bcrp 5 m psc833 be add during the incubation to inhibit endogenous p-gp in mdck-ii cell except for the cell treat with .
 the value be express as a percentage of the uptake in the absence of any excipient or in positive control .
 each column represent the mean n 3 6 .
 p p significant difference from control .
 view within article .
 moreover the uptake of mitoxantrone for 2 h in the presence of 15 kind of excipient be also determine use p-gp mdck-ii and gfp mdck-ii and be show in 2 b .
 psc833 increase the uptake of mitoxantrone time into p-gp mdck-ii whereas it be little effective but statistically in gfp mdck-ii .
 ten excipient cremophor el cremophor tween tween span pluronic p85 vitamin e tpgs brij myrj 52 and gelucire 44 14 increase the uptake of mitoxantrone in p-gp mdck-ii cell significantly suggest that this inhibit p-gp .
 additionally this excipient also increase the uptake of mitoxantrone in gfp mdck-ii cell .
 this be presumably because of the inhibition of endogenous p-gp in the mdck-ii cell line .
 notably there be difference in the inhibitory effect of excipient on bcrp and p-gp function although detail be unclear .
 the exact mechanism by which excipient inhibit efflux transporter remain unknown .
 it have be report that pluronic p85 significantly reduce intracellular atp level and this correlate well with the inhibition of efflux transporter .
 however we find no significant change in the intracellular atp level in the bcrp mdck-ii p-gp mdck-ii and gfp mdck-ii cell by the five excipient that inhibit bcrp whereas sodium azide markedly reduce the intracellular atp level in all cell line indicate that a reduction in the intracellular atp level may only play a minor role in this and far study be need to clarify the mechanism .
 pluronic p85 do not reduce the intracellular atp level in p-gp mdck-ii cell which differ from previous finding .
 this might be because of a difference in the cell line use .
 table .
 intracellular atp level after treatment with excipientsa .
 full-size table .
 aresults be express as mean n 3 .
 bconcentration of excipient be show in the parenthesis .
 p significant difference .
 view within article .
 in conclusion this study demonstrate that some excipient such as cremophor el tween span pluronic p85 and brij can inhibit bcrp as well as p-gp .
 in fact recent study prove that some of this excipient act as bioavailability enhancers of bcrp substrate drug by inhibit the intestinal bcrp .
 for clinical application the combine use of bcrp as well as p-gp substrate with this excipient may provide potential strategy for improve bioavailability or tissue distribution .
 acknowledgment .
 we thank piet borst the netherlands cancer institute the netherlands for provide the parent mdck-ii and p-gp expressing-mdck-ii cell glaxosmithkline for supply and novartis pharma ag for supply psc833 .
 this work be support in part by the ministry of education culture sports science and technology japan .
 although recent advance have be make in tumor detection and treatment the development of clinical metastasis remain a significant cause of morbidity and mortality from the disease .
 thus control the tumor metastasis be a crucial goal for the successful treatment of cancer .
 hgf also call scatter factor control a genetic program know as invasive growth which involve critical step for tumor metastasis as this factor demonstrate the ability to stimulate proliferation dissociation migration and invasion in a wide variety of tumor cell and be also a potent angiogenic factor .
 the clinical significance of hgf and receptor met in human mammary cancer have begin to emerge in the last few year .
 there be an overexpression of hgf and receptor met in human mammary tumor compare with normal mammary tissue .
 the clinical importance of hgf and receptor have be far demonstrate in recent study show that the level of met in mammary cancer tissue and level of circulate hgf in patient with mammary cancer be associate with a low survival and development of distant metastasis .
 the lung liver and bone be frequent site of breast cancer metastasis .
 indeed patient with multiple metastatic site and liver metastasis exhibit the high hgf level .
 furthermore the increase in serum hgf level be significantly associate with tumor size nodal status and histological evidence of venous invasion .
 this observation suggest the importance of gain a well insight into the role of hgf met in tumor metastasis and the potential of targeting this pathway in therapeutic strategy .
 the hgf met signaling pathway responsible for invasive growth have be mostly elucidate .
 the downstream signaling component include the pi3k akt ras mapk and the jak stat pathway .
 activation of this pathway be associate with increase scatter motility invasion proliferation survival and morphogenesis .
 the interaction of pi3k with activate met may enhance pi3k activity that have be implicate in the cytoskeletal reorganization require for cell motility and the formation of focal adhesion .
 this change in actin organization in motile cell include the formation of a highly compact meshwork of actin filament at the lead edge of cell call lamellipodia and membrane ruffle or the formation of short bundle of actin filament protrude from the cell surface call microspikes and filopodia .
 moreover the pi3k akt pathway may activate ib kinase complex by phosphorylating ib result in promote the liberation of nfb .
 the liberate nfb be then translocated to the nucleus where it bind to cognate sequence in the promoter region of many target gene and then activate gene transcription such as mmp and upa .
 all of them can degrade basement membrane and the stromal connective tissue that be believe to play an important role in cancer metastasis .
 in addition to digest extracellular matrix ecm the progression of invasion carcinoma require constant and dynamic remodeling of adhesive contact with ecm follow by invasion into the interstitial matrix .
 integrins compose of and subunits be the major family of cell surface receptor that mediate attachment to ecm and link ecm to intracellular cytoskeletal structure .
 hgf may promote cell adhesion and invasion by increase the avidity of integrin for specific ligand through a pi3k-dependent mechanism .
 it be suggest that aggregate integrin would form a high-density high-valency complex endow with enhance avidity for matrix substrate that potentiate the adhesion and migration efficiency .
 the 64 integrin which help in enhance met oncogenic potential be a receptor for various isoform of the basement membrane component laminin and met activation result in tyrosine phosphorylation of the 4 cytoplasmic domain .
 thereafter we use hgf to establish a study model on anti-invasion and anti-metastasis of flavonoid in mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell and effect on hgf-stimulated 4 function be investigate .
 flavonoids be common constituent of human diet present in much fruit and vegetable and comprise several class include flavanones flavonol flavone and isoflavone .
 in several case flavonoid have be report to possess anticancer potential .
 apigenin a non-mutagenic and low toxicity flavone be widely distribute in many fruit and vegetable include orange parsley onion wheat sprout and tea .
 it have be show to induce apoptosis of cancer cell and exert effect on inhibit the invasive process plaumann et 1996 and czyz et in which the mechanism be unclear .
 previous report show that luteolin a flavone inhibit hgf-induced hepg2 cell invasion involve both mapk erk and pi3k akt pathway .
 the aim of this study be to evaluate the inhibitory effect of apigenin on hgf-promoting invasion and metastasis of mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell and to investigate the molecular mechanism involve .
 material and method antibody and reagent .
 anti-phospho-erk1 2 anti-phospho-jnk sapk thr183 tyr185 anti-phospho-p38 tyr182 and anti-phospho-akt ser473 antibody be purchase from cell signaling technology beverly ma .
 anti-erk1 2 jnk sapk p38 akt and -actin antibody be obtain from santa cruz biotechnology santa cruz .
 the function-blocking mab 3e1 against 4 be from chemicon international el segundo .
 matrigel collaborative research bedford ma be a solubilized basement membrane preparation extract from mouse sarcoma contain laminin collagen type iv proteoglycans and growth factor .
 laminin-1 and recombinant hgf sf be purchase from sigma-aldrich louis mo .
 the pi3k inhibitor wortmannin be obtain from calbiochem la jolla .
 four flavonoid namely naringenin apigenin genistein and kaempferol be purchase from sigma-aldrich louis mo .
 full-size image 35k high-quality image effect of flavonoid on hgf-induced migration and invasion of mda-mb-231 a the chemical structure of b the hgf ng ml be apply to the low chamber as a chemoattractive agent .
 serum-starved cell be seed onto the upper chamber consist of 8 m pore-size filter coat without for migration assay and with matrigel basement membrane matrix for invasion assay then incubate with m of various type of flavonoid for 12 h .
 cell that have migrate or invade to the low surface of the membrane be count under a light microscope .
 the datum represent as mean sd from three independent analysis .
 view within article .
 cell culture .
 human breast carcinoma mda-mb-231 cell lung carcinoma a549 cell and hepatoma carcinoma sk-hep1 cell be invasive cell line obtain from atcc and maintain in dulbecco 's modify eagle 's medium dmem gibco brl grand island ny with fetal bovine serum fbs invitrogen-gibco penicillin streptomycin and non-essential amino acid .
 cell line be maintain at 37 c in an incubator with co2 and air .
 before the addition of hgf the cell be incubate overnight without serum .
 human umbilical vein endothelial cell huvec be isolate from term umbilical cord and maintain in complete medium medium 199 mm hepes ph fetal calf serum 1 mm glutamine 12 u ml heparin g ml crude endothelial cell growth supplement u ml penicillin and g ml streptomycin at 37 c on fibronectin-coated tissue culture dish .
 the cell be use at passage 1 .
 cell viability assay .
 mda-mb-231 cell be seed in 24 well plate cell well cultured in complete grow medium for 24 h and then grow in the serum-starved medium for another 24 h .
 serum-starved cell be treat with or without of m of naringenin apigenin genistein or kaempferol for 12 h .
 thereafter the medium be change and incubate with l of 3- bromide mtt dye solution promega southampton uk for 4 h .
 the number of viable cell be directly proportional to the production of formazan which then dissolve with dmso and measure spectrophotometrically at nm by emax microplate reader molecular devices sunnyvale .
 the comparative cell viability of flavonoid with control in mda-mb-231 cell be evaluate and of effective dose be express .
 in vitro cell migration and invasion assay .
 matrigel bd transduction laboratory which contain laminin collagen type iv proteoglycans and growth factor be dilute with serum-free dmem .
 diluted matrigel l or g cm2 of laminin-1 be plate on top of the boyden chamber and allow to gel for 4 h at 37 mda-mb-231 cell be pretreated with or without the indicate concentration of flavonoid integrin 4 function-blocking mab 4 g or wortmannin 2 m for 2 h .
 the cell cell ml be suspend in serum-free medium and l of suspend cell be place in the top of well .
 serum-free dmem with or without ng ml of hgf be place in the low chamber .
 after incubation for 12 h the cell on the upper surface of the filter be wipe with a cotton swab .
 the cell on the low surface of the filter be fix min with methanol stain with giemsa for 1 h and the cell that invade the low surface of the filter be then count under a microscope .
 for each replicate n 3 the cell in five random select field be determine and the count be average .
 migration assay be do by the same procedure except that the polycarbonate filter be not coat with matrigel .
 scratch motility assay .
 mda-mb-231 cell be plate in a 6 well plate and grow overnight to confluency in serum-containing medium .
 the cell be serum starve for 24 h .
 the monolayer be scratch with a pipette tip wash with pbs to remove float cell in serum-free medium and photograph h .
 various concentration of apigenin with or without combination of hgf ng ml be apply for 12 and 24 h .
 the number of cell migrate into the scratch area at day be photograph and count at 5 randomly select field and mean value per field be express .
 analysis of cell morphology and f-actin distribution .
 mda-mb-231 cell be seed on a 6 well plate at a density of 5 well and cultured in dmem contain fbs .
 after 24 h the medium be replace by a serum-free medium for another 24 h .
 after with apigenin m for 2 h hgf be apply for 12 h in co2 37 c incubation .
 then the cell be fix in paraformaldehyde and then block in bsa .
 the f-actin be stain with tritc-conjugated phalloidin to observe actin cytoskeleton and 1 mg ml of dapi be add to visualize the nucleus .
 all image be take use a nikon upright fluorescence microscope objective .
 preparation of total cell extract and immunoblot analysis .
 cell be wash with pbs plus zinc ion 1 mm and lysed in radio immunoprecipitation assay ripa buffer mm tris buffer 5 mm edta mm nacl np deoxycholic acid 1 mm sodium orthovanadate 81 g ml aprotinine g ml leupeptin and g ml pmsf ph .
 after mix for min at 4 c the mixture be centrifuged for min and the supernatant be collect as whole-cell extract .
 the protein content be determine with bio-rad protein assay reagent use bovine serum albumin as a standard .
 the sample contain to g of protein be boil in laemmli sample buffer separate on sds polyacrylamide gel electrophoretically transfer to nitrocellulose membrane amersham arlington heights il and blot with the indicate primary antibody .
 protein be visualize with the horseradish peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibody zymed laboratory south san francisco follow by chemiluminescence detection ecl-plus santa cruz biotechnology .
 immunofluorescence microscopy .
 serum-starved cell be plate onto 24 well plate costar contain glass coverslip previously coat with laminin-1 as describe for adhesion assay .
 the cell be pretreated with apigenin m or wortmannin 2 m for 2 h .
 after incubation for min at 37 c in the presence or absence of hgf ng ml cell be fix in a freshly prepare solution contain formaldehyde and sucrose in pbs ph for 5 min at room temperature .
 cell be permeabilized by soak coverslip in hepes-triton buffer mm hepes ph mm sucrose mm nacl 3 mm mgcl2 and triton for 5 min at room temperature .
 immunofluorescence be perform as previously report de luca et .
 in brief after saturation with pbs bsa for 15 min at 37 c the primary antibody be layer onto cell and incubate in a moist chamber for min .
 after rinsing in pbs bsa coverslip be incubate with the appropriate fitc-tagged secondary antibody dakopatts for min at 37 c and then mount in mowiol 4 88 hoechst ag .
 specimen be observe with an inverted photomicroscope model dmirb hc leica .
 fluorescence image be capture use a cool digital ccd hamamatsu orca camera and digitally record with the imageproplus imaging software .
 cell matrix adhesion assay .
 first 96 well microtiter plate nunc naperville il be coat with g cm2 of laminin-1 in pbs for 4 h at 37 c block with heat-denatured bsa in pbs for 1 h at 37 c wash with pbs and then air dry .
 starved cell be pretreated with or without apigenin m integrin 4 function-blocking mab anti-4 4 g or wortmannin 2 m for 2 h .
 the cell be harvest wash twice with serum-free medium and add to the well at a concentration of cell ml of the same medium .
 after incubation for min at 37 c in the presence or absence of hgf the unbound cell be remove by wash with pbs and adherent cell be fix in paraformaldehyde and stain with crystal violet for min wash three time with pbs and lysed with l of acetic acid solution .
 relative cell adhesion be quantify by monitor the absorbance of dye at nm n 4 .
 nonspecific cell adhesion as measure on bsa-coated well have be subtract .
 cell cell adhesion assay .
 mda-mb-231 cell be pretreated with or without apigenin m or anti-4 4 g for 2 h and labeled with carboxyethyl -4-5-carboxyfluorescein ester for min .
 labeled cell be deposit onto the huvec monolayer .
 after incubation in the presence or absence of hgf for min at 37 c cell-to-cell adhesion be determine fluorimetrically at ex .
 nm em .
 535 nm .
 sirna transfection .
 small interfere rna sirna inhibition of akt expression be achieve with the signalsilence akt sirna kit accord to the manufacturer 's instruction cell signaling technology beverly ma .
 briefly mda-mb-231 cell at confluence be incubate with akt sirna negative control fluorescein-labeled nonspecific sirna to assess transfection efficiency nm each .
 at 48 h post-transfection transfection efficiency be verify to be .
 the cell be then pretreated with or without apigenin in the presence or absence of hgf for the indicate time .
 knockdown of protein follow sirna transfection be confirm by western blot .
 the blot be strip and reprobed for -actin as well as erk1 2 to monitor protein loading and nonspecific rna interference effect .
 in parallel experiment sirna-transfected cell be perform for invasion assay as describe previously .
 experimental metastasis assay in nude mouse .
 six-week-old female nude mouse be use in the experimental metastasis assay .
 to generate metastases in nude mouse mda-mb-231 cell with or without various treatment be resuspended in l of pbs contain with or without hgf and inject into the tail vein on day the mouse be sacrifice 4 week after the injection of cancer cell .
 the organ examination find that the disseminate tumor form principally in the lung .
 the size and weight of lung be assess .
 in addition the tumor metastasis assay be measure by lung section stain with hematoxylin .
 chick embryo metastasis assay .
 similar cell to nude mouse study mda-mb-231 cell suspend in l of medium contain with or without hgf be seed on an 11-day-old chick chorioallantoic membrane cam for 7 day and then resected .
 the ability of tumor cell to intravasate from the primary tumor into the circulation follow by spontaneous metastasis to the lung or liver be assess by the detection of human tumor cell in the low cam lung and liver .
 the detection of human tumor cell in this tissue be based on the quantitative detection of human alu sequence present in dna extract of this tissue .
 genomic dna be extract from harvest tissue use the puregene dna purification system gentra system minneapolis mn .
 to detect human tumor cell in the chick tissue primer specific for the human alu sequence sense 5 acg cct gta atc cca gca ctt 3 and antisense 5 tcg ccc agg ctg gag tgc a 3 be employ to amplify the human alu repeat present in genomic dna that be extract from chick tissue .
 the real-time pcr employ to amplify and detect alu sequence contain ng of genomic dna 2 mm of mgcl2 m of each primer m of dntp u of platinum taq polymerase invitrogen corporation carlsbad and a dilution of sybr green dye molecular probes eugene or .
 each pcr be perform in a final volume of l under l of mineral oil with the icycler iq bio-rad laboratory hercules under the follow condition polymerase activation at 95 c for 2 min follow by cycle at 95 c for s 63 c for s and 72 c for s .
 a quantitative measure of amplifiable chick dna be obtain through amplification of the chick gapdh genomic dna sequence with chgapdh primer sense 5 gag gaa agg tcg cct ggt gga tcg antisense 5 ggt gag gac aag cag tga gga acg use the same pcr condition describe for alu .
 the fluorescence emit by the reporter dye be detect online in real-time and the threshold cycle ct of each sample be record as a quantitative measure of the amount of pcr product in the sample .
 ct be the number of fractional cycle at which the fluorescence generate by the reporter dye exceed a fix level above baseline .
 when indicate the alu signal be normalize against the relative quantity of gapdh and express as ct ctalu ctgapdh .
 the change in alu signal relative to the total amount of genomic dna and hence change in the quantity of human dna in the chick tissue be express as 2 ct .
 data be show relative to expression of alu level of untreated group be normalize to one .
 each assay include a negative control a positive control a no-template control and the experimental sample in duplicate .
 statistical analysis .
 statistical significance be analyzed by one-way analysis of variance anova with post hoc dunnett 's test .
 p value little than be consider statistically significant sigma-stat jandel scientific san rafael usa .
 result cytotoxicity of flavonoid to mda-mb-231 cell .
 we first determine the cytotoxicity of flavonoid include naringenin apigenin genistein and kaempferol by treat mda-mb-231 cell with various concentration m for 12 h follow by mtt assay .
 compared to that of control dmso-treated alone the percentage of cell viability of the flavonoid be determine .
 the result demonstrate that there be no significant difference in cell viability at the concentration range from to m and the value of each flavonoid be show in table forty-m concentration of flavonoid be apply in subsequent experiment .
 table .
 evaluation of flavonoid on cell viability of mda-mb-231 cell .
 m .
 full-size table .
 cell viability be determine by mtt assay of three independent experiment as describe in material and method .
 the comparative effect with control be evaluate and of flavonoid be express .
 view within article .
 effect of flavonoid on hgf-promoted cell migration and invasion in mda-mb-231 cell .
 hgf have be show to promote the proliferation and invasion of various cancer cell maroni et and ghoneim et .
 by trypan blue dye exclusion assay it demonstrate that hgf ng ml do not promote cell proliferation as compare with control however promote cell invasion after treatment for 12 h or 24 h in mda-mb-231 cell datum not show .
 then we examine whether select flavonoid m be able to prevent hgf-promoted cell migration and invasion .
 use boyden chamber assay we find that all the select flavonoid exhibit significant inhibitory effect on hgf-promoted migration and invasion of mda-mb-231 cell and that apigenin be the much potent .
 effect of apigenin on hgf-induced cell motility scatter migration and invasion .
 since stimulation of hgf signaling have be implicate in cancer cell invasive growth that involve a sequential series of critical step include increase motility cell scatter cell cell repulsion branch morphogenesis migration and invasion .
 to well understand the inhibitory effect of apigenin on hgf-promoted invasive growth in mda-mb-231 cell we investigate the effect of apigenin on hgf-induced cell motility and cell scatter .
 by scratch motility assay the starve untreated mda-mb-231 cell exhibit only a limited wound closure activity .
 in contrast the hgf-treated cell show acceleration of wound closure that be observe after treatment for 12 and 24 h and this cell form multiple archipelago-like sheet of cell stretch into the denude area .
 notably those wound-edge cell form asymmetric lamellipodial protrusion and apigenin have markedly decrease the wound closure activity .
 the result of the wound closure assay be quantitated through a visual analysis .
 after wound for 12 and 24 h five distinct view field per sample be randomly select and the number of free-migrating cell be count .
 cell scatter be an important component of several physiological process such as embryonic morphogenesis tissue regeneration and tumor invasion .
 as see in 2c when the mda-mb-231 cell be cultured they show tight junction and moderately fibroblastoid .
 after treatment with hgf for 12 h the cell show a remarkable scatter and spindle-shaped morphology and with apigenin be effective in block hgf-stimulated cell scatter of mda-mb-231 .
 because modulation of cytoskeleton protein have be link with cell invasion we proceed to investigate the cytoskeleton change by staining with tritc-conjugated phalloidin .
 hgf-induced membrane protrusion such as lamellipodia that be responsible for cell move and attachment be see .
 of apigenin hgf-induced cytoskeleton change be inhibit however there be no difference in the nuclear .
 full-size image 154k high-quality image 2357k full-size image 89k high-quality image 885k evaluation of apigenin on hgf-stimulated cell motility scatter migration and invasion in mda-mb-231 a the serum-starved monolayer cell be scratch with a pipette tip then pretreated with or without m apigenin api for 2 h and then apply hgf ng ml for 12 h or 24 h .
 the result be observe under phase contrast microscope and photograph .
 scale bar b the number of cell migrate into the scratch area be count at 5 randomly select field and represent as mean c the serum-starved monolayer cell be pretreated with or without m apigenin api for 2 h and then apply hgf ng ml for 12 h .
 the mda-mb-231 cell be observe under phase contrast microscopy .
 the nucleus be stain with dapi which display blue fluorescence and f-actin be stain with tritc-conjugated phalloidin which display red fluorescence .
 arrowhead indicate actin-rich membrane ruffle .
 scale bar d migration and invasion assay be perform use the boyden chemotaxis chamber and ng ml of hgf as a chemoattractive agent in the low chamber .
 cell be fix stain and count as describe in the text .
 the datum represent mean sd from three independent analysis .
 view within article .
 we also examine the dose effect of apigenin in prevent cell migration and invasion which be stimulate by hgf .
 as anticipate apigenin inhibit the hgf-induced cell migration and invasion in a dose-dependent manner when subject to boyden chamber assay .
 effect of apigenin on hgf-induced met phosphorylation .
 the hgf met signaling pathway be deregulated in numerous type of cancer include breast cancer .
 however the mechanism by which apigenin inhibit hgf-met signaling remain unknown .
 therefore we first investigate whether apigenin can inhibit hgf-induced met phosphorylation .
 western blot analysis reveal that hgf treatment induce met phosphorylation as early as 15 min and the phosphorylated form remain sustain for 1 h .
 however apigenin do not repress the phosphorylation of met at to m suggest that it be not directly inhibit met activation .
 full-size image 121k high-quality image effect of apigenin on hgf-stimulated phosphorylation of met mapk and a serum-starved mda-mb-231 cell be stimulate with ng ml of hgf for min and then the cell lysate be subject to western blot analysis and probe with the phospho-met and c-met antibody .
 in addition the cell pretreated with various concentration of apigenin for 2 h then incubate with hgf for additional 15 min .
 the cell lysate be subject to western blot analysis and probe with the phospho-met and c-met b time course effect of hgf on phosphorylation of mapk and akt be analyzed by c serum-starved mda-mb-231 cell be pretreated with various concentration of apigenin for 2 h then incubate with hgf for additional 15 min .
 the cell lysate be subject to western blot analysis for elucidation the effect of apigenin on hgf-induced phosphorylation of mapk and d the invasion assay be perform use the boyden chamber assay .
 cell be pretreated with apigenin wortmannin or both for 2 h and with or without hgf as a chemoattractive agent for 12 h .
 cell be count in triplicate well and in three independent experiment .
 the datum represent mean e serum-starved a549 and sk-hep1 cell be pretreated with or without m of apigenin then incubate with or without ng ml of hgf for an additional 15 min .
 the cell lysate be subject to western blot analysis and probe with anti-akt and anti-phospho-akt .
 view within article .
 effect of apigenin on hgf-induced akt phosphorylation .
 it remain to be determine which pathway downstream of hgf met signaling be inhibit by apigenin in order to further address the molecular mechanism of how apigenin inhibit hgf-mediated invasive growth in mda-mb-231 cell .
 we evaluate the extent of activation of hgf-met downstream transducer .
 the phosphorylation of erk1 2 jnk sapk p38 mapk and akt follow hgf stimulation be analyzed by western blot .
 even in this case erk1 2 be phosphorylated within 15 min after hgf stimulation and maximal tyrosine phosphorylation be observe at min and jnk sapk be activate as early as 5 min and activation be sustain for much than 6 h follow hgf treatment .
 akt act downstream of pi3k and be a multifunctional regulator of cell survival growth and invasion .
 it be also phosphorylated within 5 min after hgf stimulation and the phosphorylation be maintain for 2 h .
 the total protein level of erk1 2 jnk sapk and akt remain unchanged with this treatment .
 however p38 mapk be not activate by treatment with hgf though this kinase be present in the cell .
 this observation suggest that activation of erk1 2 jnk sapk and akt by hgf may play a role in invasive activity of mda-mb-231 cell .
 we far investigate the effect of apigenin on the hgf-mediated phosphorylation of erk1 2 jnk sapk and akt .
 it show that apigenin suppress hgf-induced akt activation but not erk1 2 or jna sapk activation .
 the above result be far confirm use different inhibitor include the mek inhibitor jnk inhibitor and pi3k inhibitor wortmannin datum not show .
 in addition treatment with wortmannin like apigenin inhibit hgf-induced loss of cellular junction and actin organization datum not show and decrease the number of invasive cell stimulate by hgf .
 the combination treatment of wortmannin and apigenin promote the anti-invasion effect on hgf-treated mda-mb-231 cell .
 this result indicate that block the pi3k akt pathway by apigenin contribute to inhibit hgf-induced invasive activity .
 furthermore we investigate whether apigenin selectively inhibit hgf-induced akt phosphorylation on other cancer cell .
 it show that apigenin exhibit the potential to suppress hgf-induced akt phosphorylation on human hepatocellular carcinoma sk-hep1 cell and human lung carcinoma a549 cell .
 inhibitory effect of apigenin on hgf-induced cell invasion by decrease 4 integrin avidity and adhesion through pi3k-dependent mechanism .
 in tumor invasion tumor cell that escape from the tumor mass degrade the surround ecm .
 a variety of protease produce by the tumor cell be implicate in ecm degradation .
 we proceed to determine the protease expression with hgf stimulation .
 consistent with the report of hgf do not alter the protein level of mmp and inhibitor include mmp-1 mmp-2 mmp-9 timp-1 and timp-2 datum not show .
 the presence of 4 integrin seem to be necessary to efficiently respond to hgf-induced invasion and metastasis in several carcinoma cell line and hgf promote cell adhesion and invasiveness by increase the avidity of integrin .
 we therefore investigate the inhibition effect of apigenin on hgf-induced cell invasiveness involve pi3k-dependent 4 integrin avidity .
 first we perform immunofluorescence experiment on cell adhere onto laminin-1 a specific matrix ligand for 64 in the absence and presence of hgf alone or in combination with apigenin or wortmannin to monitor the integrin 4 subcellular distribution .
 in 4a mda-mb-231 cell be plate onto laminin-1 basement membrane only at a minor aggregation of 4 integrin treatment with hgf-promoted clustering of 4 integrin at actin-rich adhesive site and lamellipodia and redistribution to actin-rich membrane ruffle and that inhibit by the coadministration with apigenin or wortmannin .
 this outcome be independent on apoptosis that be confirm with dapi nuclear stain .
 in 4b mda-mb-231 cell be serum starve detach and plate onto a plastic substrate coat with laminin-1 .
 cell adhesion be enhance by the treatment with hgf compare to that of untreated cell and that be inhibit in the presence of apigenin pi3k inhibitor wortmannin and function-blocking mab against the 4 integrin anti-4 .
 this result suggest that the pi3k signaling pathway play a crucial role in the block hgf-triggered 4 integrin avidity and cell adhesion by apigenin .
 full-size image 78k high-quality image 569k effect of apigenin on hgf-mediated 4 integrin cluster adhesion and a mda-mb-231 cell be seed in laminin-1-coated 24 well plate pretreated with m of apigenin or 2 m of wortmannin for 2 h then treat with hgf for min .
 analysis of immunofluorescence microscopy be perform as describe in the text .
 4 integrin display green fluorescence .
 f-actin stain with tritc-conjugated phalloidin display red fluorescence .
 the nucleus be stain with dapi which display blue fluorescence .
 arrowhead indicate integrin cluster green and actin-rich area red .
 scale bar 5 b mda-mb-231 cell with treatment of indicate agent for 2 h be add to microplate coat with laminin-1 .
 after incubation in the presence or absence of hgf for min cell matrix adhesion be quantify use elisa plate reader as describe in the text .
 data represent as mean c the invasion assay be perform by boyden chamber use the low surface of the membrane coat with laminin-1 and hgf as a chemoattractive agent .
 the membrane be count in triplicate well and in three independent experiment .
 the datum represent mean d after treatment of indicate agent mda-mb-231 cell be labeled with 3-o-acetyl-2-7-bis carboxyethyl -4-5-carboxyfluorescein ester for min and deposit onto the huvec monolayer then incubate with or without hgf for additional min .
 cell-to-cell adhesion be quantify use a fluorescent plate reader ex em nm 535 nm .
 data be present as mean raw fluorescent count per well of the mean .
 data be mean compare with control p compare with hgf treat alone .
 view within article .
 a critical step in the metastatic process be the attachment of tumor cell to the basement membrane bm and alter cell ecm interaction be clearly critical during the acquisition of the invasive phenotype .
 the above experiment prompt us to investigate whether inhibition of cell adhesion and integrin avidity also affect invasion .
 we perform the chemoinvasion assay on laminin-1 .
 hgf as expect significantly increase the invasive cancer cell and decrease by with apigenin wortmannin or anti-4 .
 treatment combine apigenin wortmannin and anti-4 enhance the anti-invasive effect .
 this observation indicate that the suppression of the pi3k-dependent 4 avidity by apigenin be crucial for anti-invasion effect .
 moreover it have be demonstrate that colonization of the lung by human breast cancer cell be correlated with cell adhesion to human endothelial cell luminal surface of pulmonary artery arterioles and venules which be mediate by 4 integrin .
 thus we investigate whether 4 integrin function inhibit by apigenin can in fact contribute to the suppression of mda-mb-231 cell adhesion to endothelial cell .
 then we perform the adhesion assay which measure adherence of mda-mb-231 cell to cultured endothelial cell .
 the result indicate that hgf-promoted cell adhesion compare with that of untreated cell and apigenin wortmannin or anti-4 pretreated cell exhibit inhibit adhesion activity as compare with hgf-treated alone group .
 because pharmacological inhibitor may exhibit nonspecific effect we perform akt-sirna to confirm the crucial role of pi3k akt pathway on hgf-induced invasion .
 immunoblot analysis be use for lysate from mda-mb-231 cell transfected with a control sirna or the akt-sirna for 48 h then pretreated with or without apigenin in the presence or absence of hgf .
 it demonstrate that protein level of total akt from akt-sirna-transfected cell be diminish .
 parallel sample transfected with sirna akt or control be pretreated with or without apigenin for 2 h and invasion assay be perform on laminin-1 .
 as show in 5b hgf enhance cell invasiveness effect in nontransfection cell and control-sirna-transfected cell .
 however akt-sirna-transfected cell significantly inhibit hgf-induced invasion and the inhibitory effect promote by combination with apigenin .
 together this result strongly suggest that apigenin inhibit hgf-induced akt phosphorylation be a crucial step to prevent hgf-mediated cell invasion .
 full-size image 46k high-quality image 394k effect of apigenin on hgf-mediated invasion of sirna transfected mda-mb-231 a mda-mb-231 cell be transfected with nm akt sirna or control sirna for 48 h .
 the cell be pretreated with or without m of apigenin then incubate with or without of hgf and lysate be probe for anti-akt to confirm the silence of akt expression and non-target antibody erk and -actin as control to monitor protein loading and nonspecific rna interference effect by immunoblot b transfected mda-mb-231 cell be pretreated with or without apigenin and apply hgf for invasion assay as describe in 4c .
 data represent as mean untreated cell p cell treat with hgf alone .
 view within article .
 inhibitory effect of apigenin on hgf-induced lung colonization of mda-mb-231 cell in nude mouse .
 hgf significantly increase lung metastasis as report previously .
 although mda-mb-231 cell be inefficient in form spontaneous metastasis in female nude mouse datum not show we be able to generate experimental lung metastasis 4 week after intravenous injection of tumor cell .
 in this model we evaluate the inhibitory effect of apigenin on lung colonization of mda-mb-231 cell in nude mouse .
 four week after cell injection the group of mouse treat with hgf alone exhibit sign of respiratory distress and the experiment be terminate .
 the mouse be euthanized and pulmonary colonization be examine for the develop lung metastasis .
 both the size and total weight of the lung be significantly increase for hgf-treated group as compare with that of the control group .
 moreover in the presence of hgf group pretreated with apigenin wortmannin or anti-4 show decrease in the size and total weight of the lung .
 furthermore the number and size of metastatic lung nodule be significantly reduce in apigenin wortmannin or anti-4 pretreated group .
 histological examination of the lung confirm the above gross finding upon intravenous injection of mda-mb-231 cell in nude mouse hgf promote production of massive tumor which have a solid histological appearance and lack sign of tissue organization .
 the group pretreated with apigenin wortmannin or anti-4 reduce all the metastatic phenomenon state above .
 taken together this finding strongly support the idea that block pi3k akt and the function of 4 by apigenin play a crucial role in suppress hgf-promoted metastasis of mda-mb-231 cell .
 full-size image 167k high-quality image effect of apigenin on hgf-promoted lung colonization of breast cancer cell in nude mouse .
 serum-starved mda-mb-231 cell pretreated for 2 h with indicate agent be inject with or without hgf into the lateral tail vein of 6-week-old female nude mouse n 6 .
 mice be sacrifice 4 week later and the lung be cut out for a a representative of lung size view b gross lung with metastatic nodule and c histological view of the lung section he be photograph .
 right upper square of histograms correspond to magnification of select lung section .
 scale bar m .
 view within article .
 table .
 effect of apigenin on hgf-promoted lung colonization .
 treatmentnormalsize of nodule range in mm of nodule mean range lung weight g mda-mb-231 44 62 51 77 19 35 21 37 25 42 .
 full-size table .
 effect of apigenin on lung colonization be determine as describe in the text .
 the mouse be euthanized 4 week after cell injection and the number and size of lung metastasis and the whole lung weight be measure .
 lung nodule mm in diameter be count .
 nd non-detected .
 p compare with normal .
 p compare with control .
 p compare with hgf-treated alone group n 6 .
 view within article .
 inhibitory effect of apigenin on hgf-promoted spontaneous intravasation and metastasis of mda-mb-231 cell in chick embryo .
 intravasation when tumor cell invade through blood vessel wall into the bloodstream be the key step of the carcinoma process lead to metastasis .
 thus we assess whether function of 4 integrin be require for apigenin in suppress the hgf-induced spontaneous intravasating into the cam vasculature and metastasizing to the host liver or lung tissue in vivo .
 we incubate mda-mb-231 cell for 2 h with apigenin wortmannin or anti-4 and then seed tumor cell together with or without hgf on chick chorioallantoic membrane cam .
 in the chick embryo model hgf-promoted tumor cell dissemination to the liver and lung exhibit of incidence of spontaneous liver or lung metastasis detect by pcr for human alu and that decrease by all the pretreated .
 though the incidence of spontaneous lcam intravasation do not show apparent difference in all experimental group pretreated group with apigenin wortmannin or anti-4 decrease hgf-promoted human alu expression in lcam significantly by real-time pcr analysis .
 taken together this observation indicate that apigenin can prevent hgf-promoted metastasis through block pi3k akt pathway and 4 integrin function .
 table .
 effect of apigenin on hgf-promoted spontaneous metastasis in chick embryo .
 treatmentfrequency of organ display human alu metastasis total lcamlungliver mda-mb-231 hgfcontrol9 9 untreated9 apigenin9 9 hgfwortmannin9 9 anti-48 .
 full-size table .
 effect of apigenin on spontaneous metastasis in chick embryo be determine as describe in the text .
 the incidence of intravasation of breast cancer to lcam and metastasis to liver or lung tissue be evaluate by pcr analysis of total tissue dna for the presence of human alu sequence and the chick gapdh as control respectively n .
 view within article .
 full-size image 22k high-quality image 141k effect of apigenin on hgf-promoted breast cancer cell spontaneous intravasation and metastasis in chick embryo .
 serum-starved mda-mb-231 cell be pretreated with indicate agent for 2 h .
 the cell be resuspended and then seed together with or without ng ml of hgf onto the cam of 9-day-old chick embryo n 9 .
 on day 7 tissue of the low chorioallantoic membrane lcam liver and lung be harvest .
 the quantitative real-time pcr amplification for human alu and chick gapdh be perform use dna extract from the lcam lung and liver as describe in the text .
 the datum be representative of two consecutive experiment .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 it be suggest that breast cancer have a low incidence in asia than in western country .
 this may be attributed to the asian dietary regimen rich in flavonoid-containing plant which be think to be anti-tumorigenic .
 many cancer include cancer of the colon breast and lung have be show to express dysregulated kinase enzyme activity .
 flavonoids be know to modulate some protein kinase such as protein kinase c pkc protein tyrosine kinase ptk that play key role in cancer biology ravindranath et agullo et 1997 and lin et 1997 .
 in 1 all test flavonoid exhibit inhibitory effect on hgf-induced migration and invasion that apigenin present the much potent involve block the activity of pi3k .
 interestingly while egcg a tea polyphenol directly inhibit hgf-induced met activation in mda-mb-231 cell apigenin treatment be not capable of block this response suggest that apigenin may not inhibit hgf met signaling at the level of the receptor but have the ability to block the downstream signaling such as pi3k akt pathway which be sufficient to inhibit hgf-induced invasion .
 the hgf met signaling pathway be deregulated in the majority of cancer and be associate with poor prognosis in breast cancer .
 downstream activation of the pi3k akt and the ras erk pathway have both be find to be necessary for hgf-induced motility as well as adherence junction disassembly .
 pi3k can activate a gtp-gdp exchanger for the small gtpase rac .
 activated rac in turn control the organization of the actin cytoskeleton .
 in 3 it demonstrate that while hgf induce phosphorylation of met erk jnk and akt in mda-mb-231 cell apigenin m only inhibit akt phosphorylation .
 thereafter apigenin inhibit hgf-promoted mda-mb-231 cell scatter motility migration and invasion through block pi3k akt pathway .
 in addition pi3k involve the avidity of integrin locate in membrane ruffle and lamellipodia .
 increasing avidity of integrin may enhance invasiveness through isolate matrix protein as well as through reconstitute base membrane .
 datum show that block hgf-induced pi3k signaling by apigenin and wortmannin prevent 4 integrin avidity .
 in addition to 4 mda-mb-231 cell also express the integrin subunits 1 3 and it have be report that hgf potentiate cell adhesion to ecm component fibronectin and vitronectin by affect 1 3 and 5 integrin .
 therefore we perform adhesion assay to the two substrate and find that apigenin reduce the enhancement effect stimulate by hgf datum not show .
 although apigenin suppress hgf-induced 4 avidity through pi3k akt pathway that involve in mda-mb-231 cell adhesion and invasion the molecular mechanism on other integrin need far investigation .
 furthermore colonization of the lung metastatic human breast cancer cell be correlated with cell surface expression of 64 integrin and cell adhesion to endothelial cell luminal surface of pulmonary artery arterioles and interlobular venules suggest that adhesion-inhibitory effect of apigenin may involve in lung metastasis through block 4 function .
 the notion be confirm in nude mouse experiment that anti-4 decrease the hgf-promoted metastasis .
 tumor invasion play a crucial role in metastasis and involve a number of important step include adhesion of tumor cell to the basement membrane bm enzymatic digestion of the bm by proteolytic enzyme follow by migration through the ecm with the subsequent growth and proliferation of cell at a new site .
 this event be largely regulate by extracellular signal include growth factor such as hgf .
 hgf have be show to increase upa and mmp expression secretion from cancer cell that be correlated with enhance invasiveness induce by hgf .
 moreover many ecm-degrading protease be regulate by nfb and pi3k-dependent activation of akt be require for nfb activation by hgf in du-145 human prostate cell .
 several study have demonstrate that hgf activate nfb transcription which we fail to observe in mda-mb-231 cell datum not show though hgf induce akt activation .
 thus there be considerable difference in nfb activation among the different cell type in response to hgf and this result may reflect the importance of cell context in signal transduction .
 one possibility be that some key adaptor that link akt to the transactivation domain of rela p65 might be miss in mda-mb-231 cell .
 furthermore while hgf neither alter substantially the production nor the activity of ecm protease and upa through nfb signaling pathway apigenin be able to decrease the basal level of this protease in mda-mb-231 cell unpublished datum .
 this finding indicate that reduction of mmp-9 and upa by apigenin might contribute to the prevention of hgf-independent invasive growth .
 result and that of the previous paper demonstrate that dysregulation of the pi3k akt signaling pathway can lead on tumor progression .
 the efficacious pi3k inhibitor may develop to a promise chemopreventor .
 it be suggest that the major structural requirement for the potent inhibition of pi3k on flavonoid which be benzo--pyrone derivative be the presence of c2 c3 double bond on the c ring and hydroxyl group on the b ring .
 from a structural point of view the double bond between c2 and c3 result in ring b and c be on the same plane which might be critical for an access to the kinase substrate binding site and the polar oh group on c3 and c4 of b ring be require for suppress kinase activity .
 according to investigation apigenin contain single c3 hydroxyl on b ring and c2 c3 double bond on the c ring show the much potent effect in test flavonoid .
 furthermore there be no significant difference in the anti-invasion effect between apigenin contain single c3 hydroxyl on b ring and luteolin contain both c3 and c4 hydroxyl on b ring in mda-mb-231-breast cancer cell datum not show .
 thus the association of anti-invasion and pi3k inhibition property display by flavonoid need far investigation .
 in conclusion in this paper we demonstrate that apigenin inhibit hgf-induced invasive growth of mda-mb-231 cell include motility scatter migration and invasion through block pi3k akt pathway .
 furthermore both apigenin and pi3k inhibitor wortmannin have the ability to reduce hgf-induced cell invasion and adhesion through decrease 4 integrin avidity .
 in addition we first establish two distinct model to confirm that apigenin represses hgf-induced activation of pi3k akt pathway and integrin 4 function thus reduce lung colonization of metastasis tumor cell in nude mouse and spontaneous intravasation and organ metastasis in chick embryo .
 this finding support that apigenin may have a considerable potential for be develop into a breast cancer chemopreventor .
 acknowledgment .
 this find be later confirm in meta-analyses of trial randomizing for postoperative rt 5 6 7 8 and 9 and in population-based study use leave right comparison 11 12 13 14 and 15 .
 this result concern mortality datum in patient treat with either postmastectomy or postlumpectomy irradiation except for one study that exclusively examine postlumpectomy rt 15 .
 few datum be available regard cardiac morbidity among patient treat with breast-conserving therapy 16 .
 in one modeling study a dose volume effect be suggest 17 .
 the irradiate volume of the heart can be derived from measure the maximum distance between the posterior field border and the heart contour in the beam's-eye view of a tangential treatment beam also call the maximum heart distance mhd 18 enable retrospective analysis of volume effect .
 to date no study have be publish that examine individual dose and volume effect in relation to the incidence of cvd .
 full-size image 33k fig simulator film show measurement of maximum heart distance from dorsal field border of tangential breast field mediolateral to much distant heart contour arrow .
 view within article .
 in the present study we assess the effect of tangential breast irradiation on cvd incidence by compare left- and right-sided bc patient .
 subsequently we evaluate whether increase mhd be associate with great risk of cvd in patient irradiate on the leave side .
 method and material data collection .
 we include patient with stage t1 bc treat with breast-conserving therapy between and 1993 at five institution catharina ziekenhuis eindhoven n erasmus daniel den hoed cancer center n 399 maastro clinic n netherlands cancer institute n 199 and university hospital leuven n 193 .
 patient treat with radiation field other than breast tangent and those treat with adjuvant chemotherapy be exclude as be patient with bilateral bc or other secondary malignant tumor at the time of diagnosis of bc .
 from the oncologic record we collect the follow datum date of bc diagnosis laterality tumor histology axillary lymph node status date and treatment modality of primary bc and of recurrent disease type of surgery radiation field history of cardiac disease before diagnosis of bc date of diagnosis of cardiac event cardiovascular risk factor date of much recent medical information or date of death and primary cause of death accord to the international classification of disease 9th edition .
 radiotherapy information include number of fraction total dose beam energy and boost irradiation .
 risk factor smoking hypertension hypercholesterolemia and diabetes mellitus be record both at the date of diagnosis of bc and at the end of follow-up .
 smoking be score positive when the patient be smoke at the end of follow-up or have stop smoking little than 1 year before the end of follow-up .
 hypertension hypercholesterolemia and diabetes mellitus be score as positive when state in the medical information or when treat .
 for all patient we update information until at least january 1 on specific cardiac diagnosis and risk factor as well as vital status by send a questionnaire to general practitioner gp .
 in the netherlands and in belgium nearly all resident have a gp who receive all medical correspondence from attend physician .
 municipal registry be consult for information on date of death when information be incomplete .
 for of the patient we collect cardiac datum from both the patient record and the gp and for the other from the patient record only .
 complete follow-up information until at least january 1 be available for of the patient .
 for patient who die from an acute cardiac event without prior evidence of cardiac disease the date of death be record as date of diagnosis of the cardiac event .
 measurement of maximum heart distance .
 three investigator and be train to measure the maximum heart distance mhd and in a pilot study of patient the level of agreement be establish result in the follow policy .
 the mhd be measure independently by two investigator as the perpendicular distance from the dorsal field border to the much distant part of the heart contour visible on the simulator film .
 the result be average if little than a 3 mm interobserver difference be find .
 case with a large disagreement be re-evaluated by the two observer until consensus be reach .
 treatment .
 breast irradiation be give with tangentially oppose beam to a dose of gy in 25 fraction of 2 gy in all patient use megavoltage equipment 5 8 mv in of the case .
 eleven percent of the patient be treat with machine .
 a boost be give in of the patient .
 statistical analysis .
 overall cumulative probability of death be estimate as a function of time since start of treatment use the kaplan-meier method 19 .
 the cox proportional hazard model be use to quantify the effect of laterality and mhd score on cvd risk take into account several covariate age at treatment cardiovascular risk factor .
 the cox model be fit with the use of commercial statistical software spss chicago il .
 the chi-square test and student 's t test be use to compare categoric and continuous variable respectively .
 role of the funding source .
 the sponsor of the study have no role in study design datum collection datum analysis datum interpretation or write of this report .
 the author have final responsibility for the decision to submit for publication .
 result .
 for the patient include in the study the median follow-up since start of rt be 16 year range year .
 median age at diagnosis of bc be 49 year .
 distribution of cardiac risk factor be not different for left- and right-sided bc patient except for diabetes mellitus which occur much often in right-sided case p and history of cvd before bc diagnosis which be report much often in left-sided bc patient p table 1 .
 table .
 patient characteristic by breast cancer laterality .
 characteristicright-sided bcleft-sided bcp of patients731 median age y median follow-up y risk factor for cvd hypertension157 diabetes mellitus61 47 hypercholesterolemia111 118 smoking never281 324 former smoker64 95 current 69 382 cvd before bc diagnosis7 19 .
 full-size table .
 abbreviation bc breast cancer cvd cardiovascular disease .
 value be number percentage unless otherwise note .
 view within article .
 overall and bc disease-free survival be not different for left- right-sided rt .
 comparison of overall cardiovascular mortality between patient treat on the leave side and on the right side render a hazard ratio hr of confidence interval ci 3 adjust for age at bc diagnosis history of cvd and diabetes mellitus .
 mortality from ischemic heart disease be nonsignificantly increase for left-sided rt with a hr of ci datum not show .
 full-size image 33k fig a overall survival by b survival from breast cancer by laterality .
 view within article .
 full-size image 17k fig survival from cardiovascular disease by laterality cox regression analysis adjust for age at breast cancer diagnosis history of cardiovascular disease and diabetes mellitus .
 view within article .
 table .
 cause of death .
 right-sided bcleft-sided bcp all causes172 214 breast cancer81 97 other cancer17 19 cardiovascular disease14 29 myocardial infarction5 14 other heart disease9 15 sudden death5 5 other causes38 35 unknown17 29 .
 full-size table .
 abbreviation bc breast cancer .
 value be number percentage .
 international classification of disease 9th edition code 429 .
 view within article .
 increased morbidity from cvd be statistically significantly associate with irradiation on the leave side hr ci adjust for age at diagnosis of bc history of cvd and diabetes mellitus .
 the median time to event be year .
 the increase of cvd incidence be observe not only in the category of ischemic heart disease with a marginally significantly increase risk of ci but also in the category of other heart disease hr ci consist of pericarditis valvular dysfunction cardiomyopathy dysrhythmias and congestive heart failure .
 there be no statistically significant difference in the risk of cardiovascular disease between patient irradiate with beam and those treat on linear accelerator .
 apart from left-sided irradiation other independent risk factor for increase cardiovascular morbidity be previously diagnose cvd high blood pressure hypercholesterolemia and diabetes mellitus risk from continue smoking be marginally significantly increase .
 exclusion of the patient with a history of cvd from the analysis render similar result with respect to risk of cvd from rt hr for left- right-sided rt ci .
 table .
 cardiovascular morbidity by laterality cox regression analysis right-sided bc n 731 left-sided bc n hr ci all cardiovascular disease85 139 ischemic heart disease44 73 other heart disease53 94 full-size table .
 abbreviation bc breast cancer hr hazard ratio ci confidence interval .
 value be number percentage unless otherwise note .
 adjusted for age at bc diagnosis history of cardiovascular disease and diabetes mellitus .
 international classification of disease 9th edition code 414 .
 international classification of disease 9th edition code 429 .
 view within article .
 full-size image 16k fig survival free of cardiovascular disease by laterality adjust for age at breast cancer diagnosis history of cardiovascular disease and diabetes mellitus .
 view within article .
 table .
 cox regression analysis of potential risk factor for cvd .
 variablehr ci radiotherapy leave right hypertension yes no diabetes mellitus yes no hypercholesterolemia yes no smoking current stopped unknown history of cvd yes no full-size table .
 abbreviation hr hazard ratio ci confidence interval cvd cardiovascular disease .
 adjusted for age hypertension diabetes mellitus hypercholesterolemia smoking and history of cvd .
 view within article .
 simulator film need for mhd measurement be miss in 74 patient with left-sided bc .
 maximum heart distance be measure in 796 patient with left-sided bc and be not evaluable in 18 case .
 disagreement 3 mm difference between the two observer occur in 154 case .
 concordance be eventually reach in all case .
 mean mhd be mm with a range of 48 mm .
 when examine the effect of mhd as a proxy measure of irradiate heart volume on cvd risk no significant trend of increase risk with great mhd be observe .
 patient with mhd mm seem to have a high risk of ischemic heart disease as compare with patient with small mhd measurement although the number be too small to reach statistical significance .
 table .
 cardiovascular morbidity by mhd measurement cox regression analysis ischemic heart diseaseother heart diseaseall cardiovascular disease mhdpatients n eventshr ci eventshr ci eventshr ci left7787394139 full-size table .
 abbreviation mhd maximum heart distance hr hazard ratio ci confidence interval .
 adjusted for age history of cardiovascular disease and diabetes mellitus .
 11 event of ischemic heart disease in patient with miss mhd measurement .
 18 event of other heart disease in patient with miss mhd measurement .
 22 event of cardiovascular disease in patient with miss mhd measurement .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 in this large multicenter study we focused exclusively on patient treat for postlumpectomy rt with breast tangential only and observe an increase incidence of cvd for left-sided bc compare with right-sided bc irrespective of the volume of the heart in the radiation field .
 with respect to mortality from cvd left- right-sided rt show a statistically nonsignificant increase risk of similar magnitude .
 cardiotoxic effect result from rt have be know since publication on late side effect of treatment in patient with hodgkin 's lymphoma 21 22 23 and 24 .
 many cardiac disorder have be describe as a result of irradiation coronary artery disease valvular insufficiency pericarditis and cardiomyopathy .
 the basic feature of this particular tissue damage in the heart be fibrosis occur in a dose- and volume-dependent way 25 .
 cardiovascular mortality comparison between irradiate and nonirradiated patient .
 the first indication of a possible negative effect from irradiation in the treatment of bc be see in the oslo and stockholm trial randomizing for postmastectomy irradiation 1 and 2 .
 a clear excess mortality from myocardial infarction mi be notice in the irradiate group .
 a cardiotoxic effect due to various cardiac disease be also find in two british trial 3 and 4 .
 the first meta-analysis of eight postmastectomy trial show an increase all-cause mortality of approximately in the irradiate group whereas in an update report the excess mortality seem to be confine to heart disease relative risk rr for irradiate nonirradiated patient 5 and 6 .
 the overview of the early breast cancer trialists collaborative group also report increase cardiovascular mortality in the irradiate group rr 7 8 and 9 .
 in late publication the absolute reduction in bc mortality be after 15 year of follow-up against an absolute increase in non-bc mortality of result in a net positive effect from adjuvant rt 9 .
 in the dutch late effect bc study excess cardiovascular mortality result from rt be find in the postmastectomy population rr .
 in patient treat with postlumpectomy rt cardiovascular mortality be not elevate suggest much favorable result from improve rt technique 13 .
 left right comparison with respect to cardiovascular mortality .
 left right comparison have be make in several study to estimate cardiac mortality cause by irradiation much study concern mix population of patient treat with postmastectomy and postlumpectomy rt .
 in a population-based study of the surveillance epidemiology and end result seer registry the cardiovascular mortality ratio for patient with left-sided irradiation those irradiate on the right side be and at and 15 year of follow-up respectively 12 .
 however for patient treat with breast conservation in this cohort the follow-up in the second decade after treatment be too limited to allow firm conclusion regard the postlumpectomy group 11 and 12 .
 in addition radiation treatment regimen include different target volume in the time period study .
 furthermore no information be available on how many patient be also treat with internal mammary field radiation of the internal mammary node not only on the leave but even on the right side may cause considerable radiation dose to the heart .
 another cause-specific mortality analysis by laterality be perform in the swedish cancer registry show excess mi mortality in year survivor irradiate with bc on the leave side rr 14 .
 in one study of patient from the ontario cancer registry exclusively postlumpectomy irradiation be analyzed .
 a high risk of mortality from mi be observe in irradiate patient with left-sided bc rr adjust for age at bc diagnosis 15 .
 the absolute excess cardiac mortality due to irradiation in bc treatment be estimate to be as small as to which render many study underpowered in this regard .
 with such small difference it be not surprising that several study come to the opposite conclusion no excess cardiovascular mortality from rt 26 27 and 28 .
 cardiovascular morbidity after rt for bc .
 only few study have present datum on the incidence of cardiovascular event .
 by study cardiovascular morbidity the number of event will be large enable statistically much powerful analysis .
 indeed although we do not find a significant leave right difference for cvd mortality the difference for cvd morbidity be significant .
 this correspond to the recent finding by harris et 16 who make a leave right comparison in 961 patient treat with postlumpectomy rt and find no excess cardiac mortality in patient treat on the leave side .
 however the incidence of coronary artery disease be increase for patient with left-sided bc .
 at year the survival free of mi be for patient treat for right- and left-sided bc respectively .
 in this study of the patient have additional radiation field internal mammary field and have chemotherapy adjuvant doxorubicin 16 .
 two other study recently report datum on cvd incidence after rt for bc .
 patt et 29 evaluate risk of ischemic heart disease valvular heart disease congestive heart failure and conduction abnormality and find no statistically significant difference in cardiac morbidity after radiation among patient who be treat from 1986 to 1993 .
 mean follow-up be only year however .
 the dutch late effect bc study on the other hand with a median follow-up of almost 18 year report increase risk of mi valvular dysfunction and congestive heart failure after rt administer after .
 breast irradiation only be not associate with increase risk of cardiovascular disease but the number of patient in this study treat with breast tangential n 688 be probably too small to detect a potential difference in risk .
 volume effect for risk of cvd .
 gagliardi et 17 develop a normal tissue complication probability model for fatal mi based on the datum from patient treat in the early stockholm trial .
 in this model a clear volume effect be see with three-dimensional analysis ct scan .
 however the model be based on a limited number of patient treat with relatively old radiation technique 17 .
 it have be assume that the irradiate heart volume can be estimate by measure the mhd in the irradiation beam as show by hurkmans et 18 .
 however no dose volume relationship for heart disease be establish by mhd measurement in this study .
 maximum heart distance may not be such a good indicator for actual irradiate heart volume after all because organ motion play a role .
 simulator film be snapshot and much accurate information come from actual treatment film megavoltage imaging .
 some megavoltage imaging datum suggest that the mhd be somewhat overestimate by simulator film .
 however datum seem to exclude large difference between the mhd category and do not support the hypothesis of a dose volume effect at this dose level 25 gy .
 strengths and limitation of study .
 as far as we know this be the large study on risk of cvd in patient treat with breast tangential only .
 treatment with adjuvant chemotherapy which may act as an independent risk factor for cvd be exclude .
 we also have information on radiation regimen administer during follow-up time-at-risk end if other radiation field be treat in case of local recurrence or contralateral bc .
 unlike much study we approach gp actively and collect information not only for ischemic heart disease but also for other type of heart disease as well as for cardiac risk factor .
 follow-up be nearly complete and potentially long enough to detect difference in cvd risk between left- and right-sided irradiation .
 analysis by laterality have the advantage of the least possible chance to introduce bias .
 indeed the distribution of patient characteristic between left- and right-sided treat patient be very similar for all cardiac risk factor except for diabetes mellitus and previously diagnose cvd .
 this be consider chance finding and be adjust for in the cox regression analysis .
 unfortunately for a considerable number of left-sided irradiation n 74 the mhd not be measure because the simulator film be miss .
 however the patient characteristic of this group be not different from the other and conclusion concern increase cardiovascular morbidity associate with leave irradiation remain the same when left-sided case without mhd measurement be exclude .
 a boost be give in of the case in this study population .
 exact information in term of cardiac dose from the boost be obtain in retrospect .
 however in two institution the boost be give with iridium implant and in one institution with implant and electron .
 photon boost be use in only two institution in some patient .
 detailed information on cardiac volume irradiate to a high dose with photon boost be miss but the number of patient be probably low .
 it be estimate that in the majority of the patient the boost only moderately contribute to the total heart dose approximately gy .
 because a boost be give in almost all case we do not consider it as a confound factor .
 finding that even with an mhd of mm much cardiotoxic effect occur compare with right-sided rt may indicate that low dose be relevant .
 in the mhd category the irradiate heart volume expose to dose low than of the prescribe dose 25 gy may be considerable .
 unfortunately we do not have datum on the clearance value between the heart contour and the field border negative mhd to look for volume effect at low dose level .
 some datum suggest cardiac side-effect result from low-dose radiation 31 32 33 34 35 and 36 .
 finding may point in this direction but need to be confirm .
 alternatively the relevant exposure parameter also be radiation dose to the leave anterior descend coronary artery warrant far research .
 lack of knowledge about radiation parameter determine the excess cvd risk be relate to the fact that the nature of heart damage after rt be poorly understand .
 coronary artery disease seem to be the obvious explanation 37 but how do we explain the increase risk for other type of heart disease as observe in and other datum according to prospective single photon emission compute tomography study in patient treat for bc tangential beam induce persist localized myocardial perfusion defect compatible with transmural microvascular damage and result in wall motion disturbance 38 .
 this may explain why the spectrum of heart disease after irradiation find in study and in many other be not limited to coronary artery disease .
 conclusion .
 nowadays many patient be treat with breast-conserving therapy for low-risk invasive bc and very often for ductal carcinoma in situ .
 increased risk of cvd after left-sided postlumpectomy rt with breast tangential if confirm by other should be carefully weigh against the benefit of adjuvant rt 9 .
 modern rt have sophisticated technique at disposal to treat target volume much precisely and to spare normal tissue much effectively 39 41 and 42 .
 further study be need to establish the dose level below which no measurable cardiotoxic side effect occur .
 meanwhile we suggest the application of heart-sparing technique in the radiotherapeutic treatment of bc .
 acknowledgment .
 the author thank besseling kuenen ouwens de mol-van der velde and loffeld for datum management .
 nac have lead to increase in the rate of breast-conserving surgery bct among patient with breast however several group have report unacceptably high recurrence rate in patient treat with bct after preoperative planning such as determination of the incision line be often much difficult after tumour down-staging by nac .
 the position of the lesion on image obtain by prone mri differ from that in the operative position due to mammary deformation under the effect of gravity and it be difficult to confirm the tumour spread precisely in the operative we acquire mr image in the operative position for tumour that respond well to nac and devise a procedure designate the naked image projection and reproduction method nipr to project the initial tumour image onto the skin of the breast during the operation .
 patient and method patient .
 between january and march 35 breast cancer patient undergo supine oblique mri of the operative position for bcs at chiba foundation for health promotion .
 twenty of this patient have ductal carcinoma in situ dcis while the remain 15 have invasive ductal carcinoma .
 in the same period patient undergo conventional bcs after nac .
 twenty dcis patient be diagnose by vacuum-assisted core needle biopsy vacnb and metallic marker be put in place as landmark before supine mri and subsequent bcs .
 in all case disease be stage accord to the american joint committee on cancer clinical staging guideline and the national comprehensive cancer network nccn tumour metastasis tnm classification be use .
 here we report initial tumour size in cm as determine by x-ray mammography mmg ultrasound us and compute tomography ct as initial t-stage .
 in case in which regional lymph node be swollen nodal involvement be assess by us-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy .
 patient with metastases and inflammatory tumour be exclude from the study .
 core biopsy of the tumour be perform prior to nac to obtain adequate tumour tissue for histological diagnosis and determination of histological grade hormone receptor status and overexpression of human epidermal growth factor receptor type-2 .
 the intend treatment for patient with invasive ductal carcinoma be four cycle of a combination of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide every 3 week follow by weekly paclitaxel 12 time at a dose of .
 the tumour response to nac be assess accord to the guideline of the response evaluation criteria in solid tumour recist the response to therapy be measure and classify as follow complete reduction of the enhance lesion within the breast be term a complete response cr a partial response pr be deem to have occur if the tumour be reduce in size by at least progressive disease pd be define as an increase in tumour size of at least .
 in all case surgery be perform within 21 28 day after the last cycle of chemotherapy .
 guidelines for bct remain uniform during the study period lack of extensive microcalcifications and an initial tumour size large than one quadrant and absence of collagen vascular disease or other contraindication for radiation therapy .
 fifteen patient undergo bcs by nipr after treatment with nac .
 conventional bcs be perform by us-guided dye application for the same protocol of nac .
 informed consent be obtain from all patient prior to participation in the study .
 oblique supine mri in the nipr procedure .
 in procedure the patient lie on a ramp at an incline of equivalent position .
 the patient raise the arm on the surgical side to adopt the same posture as that during the operation and we record the site to which the nipple move as a result of raise the arm .
 to create a coordinate axis on the mri image centre on the nipple we fix oral medicine capsule by a tape at the nipple and at four site 5 cm from the nipple in vertical and horizontal direction on the skin surface .
 in the nipr procedure all mr examination be perform use mr unit nt intera philip medical system best the netherlands with a flex-m coil .
 mri be perform three different time before induction of chemotherapy after treatment with the anthracycline-containing regimen and just before the operation .
 in all sequence sense sensitivity encode technology be use with a sense factor of t1-weighted image repetition time m time m of the transverse plane diffusion-weighted image b factor of and of the transverse plane and fat suppression selective partial inversion recovery spir t2-weighted tse turbo spin echo image 3887 of the same transverse plane be obtain at a section thickness of 5 mm intersection gap of 1 mm acquisition matrix of 256256 and field of view fov of mm .
 dynamic contrast-enhanced mr image be obtain by three-dimensional fat suppression selective partial inversion recovery spir t1wi repetition time m time m .
 contrast material injection be start immediately after the first set be obtain .
 meglumine gadopentetate magnevist nihon schering osaka japan be administer ml kg body weight at a rate of ml s follow by a ml saline flush into the antecubital vein .
 two set of dynamic contrast-enhanced image be obtain serially at and s .
 mnemonic system for mri mnemonic image and projection method .
 the maximal intensity procedure mip image of the mr image of the five oral capsule marker and initial tumour spread or metallic clip be generate at of full-size on a transparent sheet on which a radial coordinate axis centre on the nipple be draw to match the marker .
 the initial tumour spread image before nac be show in the metallic clip after vacnb present no signal on the mr image .
 on the day of surgery the patient reproduce the same posture as that adopt during the mr scan in the treatment planning room .
 the mnemonic image be project on the skin of the breast by backlighting the transparent sheet .
 at this time the projection table be position at a location where the mnemonic image be display at actual size .
 full-size image 55k maximum intensity image of the initial tumour lesion scale to of full size on a transparent sheet .
 view within article .
 full-size image 26k oblique supine position reproduce the same posture as that adopt during mri scan and surgery in the treatment planning room .
 view within article .
 full-size image 19k mnemonic initial tumour image project at full size on the skin of the breast .
 view within article .
 verification of the reproducibility of mri scan position .
 first we perform nipr in dcis with microscopically localized calcification and evaluate the reproducibility of mr imaging position and operative position .
 a metallic clip be insert as a landmark for later bcs in dcis patient .
 the metallic clip be visualize use the nipr technique and reproduce by projection on the skin of the patient 's breast .
 the signal site be mark on the skin of the breast and a metallic mapping button be place on the projection site .
 subsequently x-ray of the operative position be obtain to confirm deployment of the metallic clip and mapping button .
 discrepancies in the position of the metallic button and metallic clip place on the reproduce site be measure on x-ray scan .
 the linear distance be measure to calculate the projection discrepancy of the metallic clip .
 full-size image a x-ray image of the metallic clip and mapping button use for verification of the reproducibility of the mri scan position and operative b an enlarge x-ray image show metallic clip and mapping button .
 view within article .
 verification of the utility of nipr .
 the surgical resection line be establish accord to the contour of the initial tumour which be project and reproduce in the nipr technique .
 in the conventional method cm the initial tumour lesion be estimate from the residual tumour detect by us and the surgical resection line be determine with reference to us-guided dye application and prone mri and ct image .
 specimen extract during surgery be subject to x-ray scan or us .
 the radiologist or breast surgeon check the resected specimen with us in the operate room and additional excision be perform during the operation in case in which a calcify lesion or tumour be observe within 1 cm of the excision margin or rapid cytological examination of the cut-end of the mammary gland be positive for cancer cell .
 the specimen be photograph and digitized and the area of the resected specimen be calculate use nih image .
 the excision specimen area and additional excision rate be analyse .
 the initial and any additional specimen be subject to pathological examination .
 additional excision be define as over-treatment if the additional specimen obtain during the operation be find to be compose of healthy breast tissue .
 following definitive surgery the excise specimen be fix in formalin cut into multiple serial section approximately 5 mm in thickness embed in paraffin as tissue block and stain with hematoxylin and eosin and be then evaluate by pathologist .
 positive margin be define as the presence of an invasive or intraductal carcinoma within 1 mm of the excision margin .
 no additional excision be consider under-treatment if the pathological margin status be positive in the initial specimen .
 the excision specimen area and additional excision rate in patient undergo nipr be compare with the result in patient undergo cm .
 when final pathological examination indicate positive margin patient routinely undergo re-excision in an attempt to obtain negative margin .
 statistical comparison between group be perform use welch 's t-test or the mann whitney u-test .
 all comparison be two-tailed and be consider statistically significant .
 result .
 all metallic clip of vacnb be detect as no-signals on mip image of supine mri and be detect by x-ray .
 in all case it be possible to measure the distance between the mapping button and the metallic clip on x-ray .
 as show in table 1 the median distance between the vacnb metallic clip and the mapping button for the dcis patient be mm .
 according to location the median distance be as follow upper inner quadrant mm low inner quadrant mm upper outer quadrant mm low outer quadrant mm and the central position mm .
 nipr demonstrate the location of metallic clip within little than 5 mm in 18 of the case .
 observation confirm that there be a high degree of reproducibility of the mri scan position and position during the operation .
 table .
 difference between mammotome metallic marker and mapping button .
 difference mm z direct xy mean range mean range mean range 1 1 3 3 liq31 2 1 2 1 2 6 5 4 2 4 1 3 .
 5 5 full-size table .
 the transparent sheet that the coordinate axis be describe be centre on nipple .
 therefore the image projection of a lesion near the nipple central position have few error .
 dcis ductal carcinoma in situ liq low inner quadrant loq low outer quadrant uiq upper inner quadrant uoq upper outer quadrant cp central position .
 view within article .
 table 2 list the clinical characteristic of the patient receive nac in both nipr and cm group .
 the nipr group include four case of t3 4 disease while there be no t3 or 4 case in the cm group .
 after nac clinical cr and pr be observe in 8 and 7 patient respectively in the nipr group and in 8 and 12 patient respectively in the cm group .
 the median follow-up period for nipr cm be 18 33 month range 13 24 month range 24 46 month .
 there be no case of local relapse or distant metastasis in either group .
 table .
 clinical characteristic and response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy .
 characteristicsniprcm age mean yr 4454 range yr 29 5536 71 follow up mo 13 2424 46 median mo 1833 .
 tumour category t135 t2815 t3 .
 clinical response pr712 cr88 .
 full-size table .
 sd stable disease pr partial response cr complete response .
 view within article .
 the average area of the excise specimen in t1 and t2 case be range and range respectively in the nipr group while this value be range and range respectively in the cm group welch 's t-test .
 full-size image average area of the excise specimen in the naked image projection and reproduction method nipr and conventional method cm .
 view within article .
 the re-excision rate be and in the nipr and cm group respectively and each specimen be show to have residual dcis .
 none of the 15 case in the nipr group require additional excision based on us x-ray and scrape cytology during the initial operation while additional excision be require in 6 of case in the cm group the mann whitney u-test .
 of the 6 case with additional excision in the cm group 5 have negative margin on the initial specimen on permanent sectioning and there be no residual tumour in the additional specimen .
 the pathological margin status be positive in 1 of the 15 case in the nipr group and 1 of the case in the cm group the difference between group be not significant the mann-whitney u-test .
 table .
 comparison of additional intraoperative excision between cm and nipr .
 noyestotal .
 full-size table .
 .
 .
 sequential additional excision be perform in case where a tumour or calcify lesion be detect within mm of the cut-end .
 cm conventional method nipr naked initial image projection and reproduction method .
 view within article .
 table .
 comparison of pathological margin status between cm and nipr .
 negative positive total cm19 1 nipr14 1 15 .
 full-size table .
 .
 .
 positive margin be define as the presence of an invasive or intraductal carcinoma within 1 mm of the surgical margin .
 cm conventional method nipr naked initial image projection and reproduction method .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 due to the simultaneous use of nac bcs have be widely perform in patient with breast cancer .
 however increase in the rate of positive margin and re-excision due to focus on minimize residual cancer have be report in bcs after nac especially in case in which the tumour respond well to tumour shrinkage be uneven and viable tumour focus may remain some distance from the central residual tumour preoperative planning such as determination of the optimal incision line be much difficult after down-staging of the tumour by nac .
 to overcome the difficulty in localization of the tumour site in patient who respond well to nac result in a non-palpable tumour it be necessary for the surgeon to accurately recognize both the residual tumour and the initial tumour site .
 breast mri have be report to have high sensitivity rate in identification of residual tumour tissue particularly compare to other imaging technique such as us ct and mmg in patient study preoperatively after enhanced mri often use contrast medium and the rate of uptake of contrast enable suspicious area in the breast to be far distinguish .
 synchronous tumour show hypervascular uptake of contrast material and breast mri may improve preoperative evaluation of the extent of disease in such accurate preoperative measurement of tumour size use mri can limit the rate of positive margin and the re-excision procedure .
 however one problem associate with the use of mr image of the breast for planning of bcs be the deformation of the breast cause by place the patient in the prone position .
 tozaki et suggest that the supine oblique position mri be much useful for surgical planning than the prone kaufmann et emphasize that a schematic drawing and photography of the mass localization at the beginning of nac would be very helpful for localization of the initial tumour other method have be report such as the placement of a metallic marker or platinum embolization coil or tattoo the position and size of the tumour on the skin of the breast and prepare a transparent grid on the breast and tumour we feel that it be necessary to excise the initial tumour lesion prior to nac to avoid the risk of residual tumour cell .
 we have develop a new bcs procedure call the nipr in which mri scan be perform prior to nac with the patient in the same position as adopt during surgery .
 in this procedure the initial image be project and reproduce on the skin of the breast just before the operation and the project image be then use to set the surgical excision line .
 when the bcs be perform the cylindrical mammary resection vertical to the mammary surface about the lesion be usually perform because the three-dimensional reconstruction of the lesion during the operation be often difficult .
 therefore an image of a tumour be project on breast in two dimension by method .
 success of this procedure depend on reproducibility of posture between the mri position and intra-operative position .
 nipr show reproducibility of posture between the mri position and intra-operative position .
 nipr be useful in patient with dcis because it facilitate detection of the metallic clip for surgical treatment .
 all the case be also confirm by mmg and us which be concordant with nipr .
 discrepancies in the relative position of the mapping button and the metallic clip place on the reproduce site be measure on x-ray scansthe median discrepancy linear distance between the mapping button and metallic clip be mm .
 sibylle et report a re-excision rate of after bcs in patient treat with this high rate of re-excision compare to that in the present study of use nipr may be explain to the difference in preoperative planning sibylle et perform resection of tumour down-staged by nac while we treat the initial tumour site before nac .
 the selection criterion remain controversial and at present there be no standardized protocol for the type and extension of bcs after nac .
 in case of clinical cr and negative imaging of the residual tumour by mmg or us the placement of a metallic marker at the primary tumour site facilitate localization at surgery .
 the metallic clip indicate the location of the tumour but do not reveal the initial tumour extent and it be therefore difficult to determine the extent of the excision accurately .
 in addition the metallic clip be detect at a rate of only on us and be separate and remove during .
 several author have report that us be a very useful tool in the operative setting not only for non-palpable but also for poorly palpable breast tumour .
 however us may not be able to clearly distinguish chemotherapy-induced fibrosis from residual .
 the cm involve excision of an unnecessarily large volume of breast tissue .
 in study of cm we find five case of over-treatment among six additional excision specimen .
 in addition there be no additional excision with nipr .
 the nipr procedure enable precise excision of an adequate amount of breast tissue compare to cm .
 this success depend on identification of the initial tumour location and the reproducibility of the patient 's posture during surgery .
 nipr significantly reduce the excision specimen area as compare with cm facilitate resection of an adequate amount of tissue with preoperative planning and have superior cosmetic outcome .
 this be consider to be a factor in both reduce the resection area and in improve cosmetic result as resected tissue volume and cosmetic outcome be inversely moreover procedure may enable the operation faithful to an mri image .
 therefore if mr imaging improve a residual tumour detect by mr imaging after chemotherapy may be resected and nipr procedure may decrease the mammary resection area .
 the aim of mri study be to project the extent of the initial tumour as compare to the size of the post nac tumour onto the breast in the operative position at the time of surgery .
 for the aim of the estimation of nipr the surgical excision line be assess only with supine mri .
 the combination of nipr and other modality such as us mmg would be useful in determine surgical resection line in the near future .
 unfortunately analysis be focused on the practical procedure of surgery after nac and datum regard local failure and disease-free survival be not discuss because of the short period of the study .
 the procedure report here do not involve the use of a dedicate breast coil .
 in study there be only one case of under-estimation in which the initial tumour have spread before nac and be not detect on supine mri us ct or mmg .
 prone mri with a breast coil may have detect this disease .
 for use of supine mri direct comparison of the diagnosis of spread between oblique supine and prone mri scan with a breast coil in the same patient be require .
 nipr with supine mri be a safe and simple technique that be useful in the localization of tumour spread prior to bcs as well as initial non-palpable lesion .
 furthermore this procedure may relieve stress from a surgeon perform an operation of the breast cancer patient after nac .
 however due to the small number of case include in the present study it be not possible to come to any definitive conclusion regard the management of bcs after nac .
 further prospective study in large number of patient be require to clarify the result in great detail .
 conflict of interest statement .
 none declare .
 compared with old patient young breast cancer patient exhibit a great proportion of aggressive pathologic feature such as lymphovascular space invasion high nuclear grade and a high proportion of estrogen receptor negativity 3 4 5 and 6 .
 however even with pathologic factor account for young age remain an independent predictor for a ill outcome in patient treat with either breast-conserving therapy or mastectomy 1 7 and 8 .
 recent update of large randomized trial have highlight the benefit of postmastectomy radiotherapy pmrt on outcome in high-risk breast cancer patient but have not report age-specific result .
 a report of the danish breast cancer cooperative group randomized study that include pre- and postmenopausal patient demonstrate that pmrt be associate with improve locoregional control lrc and a low rate of distant metastases in high-risk patient treat with adjuvant chemotherapy 9 .
 in addition the british colombia trial n 318 demonstrate a benefit of pmrt on the year rate of lrc and overall survival os in premenopausal node-positive patient treat with adjuvant chemotherapy .
 furthermore the 15 year result from a meta-analysis of randomized trial by the early breast cancer trialists collaborative group confirm that pmrt improve long-term lrc regardless of nodal status and improve 15 year os in node-positive patient 11 .
 data specific to patient treat with neoadjuvant chemotherapy be much limited .
 group previously examine the affect of pmrt in patient of all age n 676 median age 49 year treat with neoadjuvant chemotherapy and mastectomy and find that the addition of rt improve lrc and cause-specific survival for patient with locally advance disease such as those with four or much positive lymph node t3 primary tumor or stage iii disease 12 .
 despite the evidence demonstrate a benefit of pmrt in high-risk breast cancer patient the evaluation of risk among patient 35 year old have not be adequately address .
 the purpose of this study be to examine the affect of pmrt in young breast cancer patient 35 year after neoadjuvant chemotherapy and mastectomy for stage ii-iii disease .
 patient and method .
 we retrospectively review patient 35 year old treat between 1975 and with stage ii-iii breast cancer on protocol with neoadjuvant doxorubicin-based chemotherapy and mastectomy .
 all patient be clinically stage at diagnosis and retrospectively recategorized accord to the american joint committee on cancer staging guideline .
 the median number of recover axillary lymph node after mastectomy be range 1 54 .
 a total of patient be treat with pmrt and 27 be not .
 of this 27 patient 21 have zero to three positive lymph node at surgery and be not referred for pmrt and 6 patient have four or much lymph node 1 patient refuse rt and 5 be not referred for unknown reason .
 for the patient treat with pmrt the treatment volume during this period typically include the chest wall and drain lymphatic include the supraclavicular and internal mammary nodal region median dose gy follow by a chest wall boost median dose gy .
 all patient undergo compute tomography simulation and planning for optimal target coverage with minimal exposure to the lung and heart .
 the chest wall be usually treat with medial and lateral tangent use photon design to include the entire chest wall .
 a separate supraclavicular anterior photon field be match at the nondivergent superior border of the tangential field design to encompass the undissected level iii axilla and axillary apex .
 an electron field be often match medially to the medial tangential field with particular care to cover the internal mammary nodal region while respect critical structure include the heart and lung .
 finally the chest wall be typically boost with electron design to include the mastectomy scar with an adequate margin .
 statistical analysis .
 the distribution of the clinical and pathologic factor between group of patient be compare use the chi-square test .
 locoregional recurrence lrr be define as disease recurrence on the ipsilateral chest wall or in the ipsilateral axillary supraclavicular infraclavicular or internal mammary lymph node .
 any other site of recurrence be score as distant metastasis .
 all lrr be consider independent event regardless of whether they occur before or after distant metastasis .
 the 5 year actuarial rate of lrr and os be calculate accord to the kaplan-meier method and comparison between the two patient group be make use the log rank test .
 all survival statistic be measure from the date of diagnosis .
 all p value be two-sided and p be consider significant .
 result patient characteristic .
 the median follow-up for irradiate n and nonirradiated n 27 patient be 75 and 63 month respectively 72 month for all patient combine range 2 238 .
 the median follow-up for the 61 survive patient be 92 month .
 table 1 outline a comparison of the disease characteristic between the treatment group .
 patient in the pmrt group have a statistically great percentage of stage iii tumor p great percentage of lymphovascular space invasion p and stage t4 disease p .
 also a nonsignificant trend toward a much advance nodal stage be find in the pmrt treatment group because of n2 and n3 disease .
 no difference be find between the group with respect to nuclear grade hormone receptor status tamoxifen use margin status presence of extracapsular extension or number of node sample .
 no relationship be find between rt volume and outcome .
 table .
 patient and tumor characteristic .
 characteristicno rt n rt n p clinical iia3 11 1 1 iib12 46 12 15 iiia4 15 23 29 iiib6 23 37 47 iiic1 4 6 8 clinical t t12 7 t211 41 11 14 t37 26 29 36 t47 26 clinical n 19 9 11 n117 63 37 46 n24 15 28 35 n31 4 6 8 pathologic tumor size cm 212 44 38 48 59 33 28 35 4 13 unknown5 19 4 5 of positive 33 19 24 1 311 41 22 28 46 22 38 47 unknown1 4 1 1 percentage of positive 74 36 45 26 43 54 1 1 node sample n 7 11 14 85 68 85 unknown2 7 1 1 present9 33 39 49 absent18 67 33 41 8 tumor 112 44 36 45 29 33 25 35 19 21 26 unknown1 4 3 4 margin free negative26 96 66 83 5 6 close 2 mm 5 6 unknown1 4 4 5 estrogen positive13 48 32 negative8 36 45 unknown6 22 12 15 progesterone positive9 33 22 28 negative8 39 49 37 19 24 hormonal yes6 22 25 31 no21 78 63 5 6 response to neoadjuvant cr4 15 15 19 pr22 81 53 66 nr1 4 2 3 4 5 6 7 adjuvant yes19 66 84 no8 13 16 full-size table .
 abbreviation rt radiotherapy lvsi lymphovascular space invasion cr complete response pr partial response nr no response pd progressive disease .
 data in parenthesis be percentage .
 view within article .
 locoregional recurrence .
 of the patient in the pmrt group 18 have locoregional failure and of the 27 patient in the no rt group have lrr .
 the 5 year lrr rate be for the patient who receive pmrt compare with in the 27 patient who do not receive pmrt p 1 .
 the site of locoregional failure include the isolate chest wall in 7 patient isolate supraclavicular region in 6 patient simultaneous chest wall and supraclavicular region in 3 patient simultaneous chest wall and infraclavicular node in 1 patient and simultaneous chest wall and axilla infraclavicular and supraclavicular node in 1 patient .
 full-size image 5k rate of 5 year actuarial locoregional control for all patient treat with radiotherapy rt and without rt no rt .
 view within article .
 the mean and median time to local recurrence in all patient be 29 and 23 month respectively .
 table 2 show the relationship between select clinical and pathologic characteristic of patient in each treatment group and lrr .
 four patient have clinical stage iia disease and only 1 receive pmrt this patient also have perineural invasion and extracapsular extension in a positive axillary lymph node .
 all 4 of this patient be alive and disease free at the last follow-up visit .
 the addition of pmrt improve lrr in both those with clinical stage iib disease p and those with clinical stage iiia-iiic p .
 of the 24 patient with clinical stage iib disease present with disease and 14 have disease .
 of this 14 patient have pathologic nodal disease at surgery that be much advance than be apparent from the initial clinical examination and radiographic study 6 patient with four or much lymph node .
 of the patient with tumor refractory to chemotherapy 7 receive pmrt and 3 do not 2 decline and 1 be lose to follow-up .
 of the 7 patient who undergo pmrt none experience locoregional failure .
 however of the 3 remain patient with disease progression during chemotherapy who do not receive pmrt 2 have lrr .
 only 7 patient have clinical stage t2 disease with one to three positive lymph node after surgery therefore no meaningful analysis be conduct in this small subset .
 table .
 five-year actuarial rate of lrr accord to clinical and pathologic factor .
 5 y lrr rate characteristicno rt rt p clinical stage clinical t stage clinical n stage positive node n 1 .
 full-size table .
 abbreviation lrr locoregional recurrence rt radiotherapy na not applicable .
 view within article .
 radiotherapy also correlated with reduce lrr in patient stratified accord to t stage t2 p t3 p and t4 p and n stage p and n2 p .
 survival .
 of the 18 patient with locoregional failure only 2 be alive at last follow-up .
 the 5 year actuarial rate of os for all patient stage ii-iii be in the pmrt group and in the non-rt group p 2 .
 subset analysis of survival by clinical stage find that for stage iib patient pmrt significantly improve os compare with that for those who do not receive pmrt p .
 in stage iiia-iiic patient those who receive pmrt have significantly improve os compare with patient who do not receive pmrt p .
 additionally rt improve survival in patient with four or much positive node at surgery p and in patient with lymphovascular space invasion p .
 full-size image 5k rate of 5 year actuarial survival for all patient treat with radiotherapy rt and without rt no rt .
 view within article .
 table .
 five-year actuarial survival rate accord to clinical and pathologic factor .
 5 y survival rate characteristicno rtrtp clinical stage clinical t stage clinical n stage positive node n 1 lvsi .
 full-size table .
 abbreviation na not applicable other abbreviation as in table .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 this be the first report evaluate the affect of pmrt in breast cancer patient 35 year old at diagnosis and treat with anthracycline-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy and mastectomy .
 datum find that the addition of pmrt in patient with stage iib-iii disease lead to superior rate of 5 year lrc and os .
 when patient with stage iib disease be analyzed separately an improvement in lrc and survival with the addition of pmrt remain statistically significant .
 the large magnitude of benefit see from pmrt in young patient provide valuable datum to well tailor adjuvant age-specific treatment decision in difficult clinical circumstance .
 finding provide evidence support the recommendation for adjuvant rt for this patient and should guide physician in counseling of young patient .
 young age have previously be suggest as a predictive factor for ill outcome in breast cancer patient treat with mastectomy without rt .
 a recent large retrospective study from canada that analyzed patient with t1-t2 disease and one to three positive lymph node treat with mastectomy and chemotherapy find age 45 year to be an independent risk factor for lrr after mastectomy with a hazard ratio of 13 .
 furthermore a large meta-analysis of five national surgical adjuvant breast project trial with patient with all disease stage treat with mastectomy and adjuvant chemotherapy find that young patient have great rate of lrr with or without distant failure among the 39-year-old patient 14 .
 finally retrospective report include one from institution that include patient with stage ii-iii disease treat with neoadjuvant chemotherapy and mastectomy have suggest that young age be a risk factor for lrr 15 and 16 .
 although this study suggest that young age might be an adverse prognostic factor for outcome it be important to note that not all report have show similar result 17 18 and 19 .
 furthermore the result from subset analysis should be interpret cautiously .
 with large randomized trial such as the british colombia trial and danish 82b trial both study include premenopausal patient and recent meta-analyses show an improvement in lrc and survival with the use of pmrt in breast cancer 9 and 11 an emphasis have be place on identify subset of patient who might be at high risk of local recurrence particularly those for whom the recommendation of pmrt be not routine .
 consensus panel include those from the american society of therapeutic radiology and oncology american society of clinical oncology and the national institute of health have recommend the use of pmrt in patient with four or much positive axillary node and those with t3 or t4 primary tumor 21 and 22 .
 however this group have cite insufficient evidence to recommend pmrt for those with small primary tumor and one to three positive lymph node after surgery or patient with potentially high-risk feature such as young age .
 furthermore recommendation regard patient who receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy be not yet concrete .
 for example the american society of clinical oncology panel conclude that there be insufficient evidence to make recommendation or suggestion on whether all patient treat with preoperative systemic therapy should be give pmrt after surgery .
 to date this be the large series of breast cancer patient 35 year treat with neoadjuvant chemotherapy and mastectomy with or without pmrt .
 result suggest that young patient with stage iib-iii disease derive a large benefit in lrc and os with the addition of pmrt with a two-thirds reduction in lrr at 5 year with and without pmrt respectively and improvement in os at 5 year with and without pmrt respectively .
 rt improve survival for young patient with stage iib disease a result not seen in a previous report of similarly treat patient of all age 12 .
 a significant proportion of the patient with clinical stage iib have either stage t3 disease or four or much positive lymph node after surgery because of disease progression two factor independently prognostic for local recurrence after mastectomy .
 despite this result suggest that young age might be a powerful prognostic factor to gauge the benefit of pmrt in patient with stage iib or great disease .
 relatively few of patient have stage ii disease and one to three positive lymph node .
 therefore the benefit of pmrt for young patient in this group remain unclear .
 one limitation of this analysis be retrospective nature .
 all retrospective study inherently risk an imbalance of patient and tumor characteristic .
 the two cohort pmrt no pmrt in study have difference in several factor but the much advance tumor characteristic be in the pmrt group and yet they have the improve locoregional and survival benefit .
 this emphasize the advantage with pmrt to overcome negative pathologic feature in this cohort .
 a second limitation of this study be the modest number of patient with stage iib disease for whom the result need to be confirm in a large study .
 although this be the large series of patient 35 year treat with neoadjuvant chemotherapy and mastectomy with or without rt multivariate analysis be not possible because of relatively limited number of event .
 conclusion .
 the addition of pmrt be associate with significant improvement in lrc and os in young patient 35 year old after neoadjuvant chemotherapy and mastectomy for clinical stage iib-iii breast cancer and should help to guide difficult treatment decision .
 the system have be build as part of the credo project fox patkar thomas which be design to support the entire journey of breast cancer patient from initial presentation and diagnosis through to treatment and follow-up .
 as part of the credo project a formal model of a breast cancer care pathway have be develop fox alabassi patkar rose black which show that there may be as many as 52 separate decision point in the breast cancer journey at which there be significant potential for patient harm or at least failure to achieve the good outcome unless clinician apply good evidence-based practice .
 the system describe here the triple assessment decision support system tads be design to assist breast clinician at four decision point genetic risk assessment selection of imaging technique choice of biopsy modality and final management decision .
 the system have be create use the tallis implementation of the proforma knowledge representation language with a user interface implement use java server page servlets javascript and cascading style sheets .
 we describe and analyse the system use the commonkads methodology .
 the first section of the paper provide background information about triple assessment commonkads proforma and tallis .
 the next three section use the commonkads methodology to analyse and describe the system this analysis first examine the organisational context in which the system would be use then describe the requirement which it must meet and finally outline design .
 the final section of the paper discuss the analysis perform and outline conclusion .
 .
 triple assessment of breast cancer .
 breast cancer be the much commonly diagnose cancer in woman accounting for about of all such cancer .
 one in nine woman will develop breast cancer at some point in life .
 in the year a total of woman be newly diagnose with breast cancer in the england uk office for national statistic .
 in the uk woman with breast relate symptom that raise suspicion of breast cancer be referred by gp to designate breast clinic in local hospital .
 in a single year the average gp with a patient list of expect to see one or two new case of breast cancer but will see considerably much patient with benign breast problem .
 a hospital responsible for a population of will deal with perhaps new gp referral each week plus maybe two woman referred after screening mammography .
 over the period of one year a typical breast clinic will have approximately breast referral out of which approximately patient will be diagnose with breast cancer .
 to increase the accuracy of diagnosis a combination of clinical examination imaging and biopsy know together as triple assessment be recommend for qualify woman .
 imaging be achieve either by mammography or ultrasound biopsy may take the form of core biopsy or fine needle aspiration fna .
 commonkads .
 commonkads provide a complete methodology for the development of knowledge based system kbs .
 the methodology describe principle technique model language and document structure to assist in three phase of the construction of a kbs .
 the contextual analysis phase focuses on the organisation that will eventually use the system describe the business process resource and knowledge asset of the organisation as well as describe the impact that the kbs will have on the system .
 one of the aim of contextual analysis be to demonstrate that the propose kbs be feasible and that it bring benefit to the organisation that outweigh the cost of implement and adopt it .
 in the second conceptual analysis phase the methodology be use to clarify the knowledge that the kbs will be require to represent the reasoning that it will be require to perform on that knowledge and the interaction that it will be require to perform with user and other external agent .
 in the third design phase the methodology be use to create a design for the kbs that can easily be translated into code in some appropriate programming language .
 the analysis produce a set of model as illustrate in the contextual analysis phase produce the organisation model which be a first cut description of the organisation use the system .
 it also produce the task and agent model which provide much detail about the task that the organisation perform and the people or system that perform this task .
 the conceptual analysis phase produce the knowledge model which describe the knowledge representation and reasoning requirement of the system and the communication model which describe the require information flow between the system and the various agent that interact with it .
 the design phase produce the design model .
 some of this model may be omit if they be inappropriate to the system be analyse .
 full-size image 15k commonkads model .
 view within article .
 proforma and tallis .
 proforma be a knowledge representation language that can be use to create process description description of process that unfold over time and require the cooperation of various actor such as clinician or other medical personnel .
 the language benefit from an easy-to-use graphical editor which can be obtain by agreement with the research team develop the language .
 a proforma process description be compose of object draw from the class set out as a uml class diagram in each class of object have a set of name property to avoid clutter property be not show in 2 .
 each instance of a give class will have different value for this property .
 if one class of object be connect to another by a kind of relationship then the much specific class inherit all the property of the much general class for instance a proforma component have a property name description and hence tasks data items and all other kind of proforma component will also have this property .
 full-size image 25k proforma component .
 view within article .
 a proforma process description be a set of interlink proforma component .
 a proforma component can be among other thing a task or a data item .
 a task can be an action an enquiry a decision or a plan .
 an action generally represent a request for an external actor to do something prescribe a drug or perform some other clinical intervention .
 an enquiry represent a request to an external actor to provide value for datum item the source of the enquiry .
 a decision represent a choice between one or much candidate .
 the choice of candidate s may be perform by an external actor or it may be make automatically by the system .
 the engine keep a record of which candidate s have be choose in which decisions and this information can be use to control the subsequent execution of the process .
 each candidate be associate with one or much argument this be logical expression truth or falsity influence the choice of candidate that will be recommend to an external actor or make by the engine if no external actor be involve .
 proforma include an expression language that be use to define among other thing the precondition that must be true in order for a task to be activate and the criterion that must be fulfil in order for an argument to be true .
 the proforma expression language include the usual logical arithmetic and comparison operator as well as function that evaluate the value of datum item and the execution state of task whether they have be or need to be perform .
 the proforma language have be give a precise syntax and semantics sutton fox .
 the semantics define the value that be return when an expression be evaluate as well as the operation that can be perform on a run process and the change that occur in the process state when this operation be perform .
 two implementation of a proforma engine exist the arezzo implementation which be available commercially from infermed london uk and the tallis implementation from cancer research uk .
 contextual analysis .
 a commonkads contextual analysis describe the effect that a propose kbs will have on the organisation that use it and provide a mean of judge the improvement that the kbs will bring as well as the cost of implement and adopt it .
 an essential part of contextual analysis be the development of an organisation model .
 this model have five section in the first section problem that the organisation face be set out and solution to this problem involve the use of a kbs be briefly outline .
 in the second the variant aspect of the organisation such as organisational structure business process and knowledge asset be outline .
 the third section describe the individual task that be perform as part of the organisation 's business process the fourth identify describe and evaluate the knowledge asset use in this process .
 the fifth section set out an initial judgement of the feasibility of the propose kbs .
 problem and .
 problem statement .
 in the case we consider here the main problem face be to make sure that the assessment technique available to clinician be use appropriately .
 under-use or overuse of any of the technique that form part of the triple assessment process may risk harm to patient in term of in miss cancer and or resource exhaustion .
 recent policy document and audit have emphasised the importance of use evidence based guideline to ensure the consistency and quality of cancer care and have express concern about the extent to which this policy be follow in a transparent and demonstrable manner audit commission and calman and hine 1995 .
 the propose kbs aim to provide assistance to clinical staff involve in triple assessment .
 this assistance be intend to accord with evidence based guideline and ensure consistent and safe practice .
 this problem be to be examine in the context of a wide project credo aim be to provide support to breast cancer patient at all stage of management .
 proposed solution .
 the propose solution be to use the proforma language and the tallis toolset to implement a distribute computerised decision support system to assist in the triple assessment process .
 the primary user of the system will be breast surgeon radiologist and nurse practitioner .
 the system will make use of datum provide by cytologist and pathologist .
 organisational context .
 an essential part of a commonkads organisational model be a description of those aspect of the organisational context that be likely to affect a decision whether or not to adopt a propose kbs .
 this include the overall goal and principle of the organisation the strategy that it adopt in order to achieve those goal and the external factor that it be oblige to consider .
 the reason for include such information in the model be that any propose kbs must conform to and respect this aspect of the organisational context in order to be successfully adopt .
 in this section we set out the goal and principle underlie the provision of cancer care in england and wales the strategy employ in order to achieve this goal and the external factor affect the provision of such service .
 mission goal and principle .
 the expert advisory group on cancer calman hine 1995 recommend that the follow principle should govern the provision of cancer care in england and wales care should be of uniformly high quality and should be provide as close to the patient 's home as be compatible with high quality safe and effective treatment .
 early recognition of symptom should be encourage through public and professional education program and screening program .
 patient family and carers should be give clear information and assistance at all stage in diagnosis and treatment of cancer .
 care should be patient centre and should take account of patient family and carers view .
 the primary care team should continue to provide a central role in the provision of care to patient and family .
 psychosocial aspect of cancer care should be consider at all stage .
 cancer registration and careful monitoring of treatment and outcome be essential .
 principles specific to the diagnosis of breast cancer have be set out by the national institute for health and clinical excellence nice .
 this include increase in the speed and accuracy of breast disease diagnosis .
 reduction of cost by reduce unnecessary open biopsy rate .
 exploitation of the survival and quality of life benefit associate with appropriate treatment by adequate and early diagnosis .
 improvement of patient 's experience by minimising the time and number of visit require for get diagnosis .
 strategies .
 strategies adopt to achieve the above goal include the provision of paper guideline on care see for example baso and sign encouragement of the use of write protocol concentration of resource into centre and unit that be large enough to ensure a sufficient volume of work to maintain expertise professional training include training of nurse practitioner and the introduction of an audit cycle .
 the expert advisory group nice note that although there will be some variation in pattern of practice across the country cancer unit or cancer centre that use different method of treatment should be expect to justify them on scientific or logistical ground .
 external factor .
 breast cancer diagnosis and treatment be unsurprisingly a subject of considerable interest to the public the press government and political organization and the pharmaceutical industry .
 external factor affect the provision of cancer care therefore include lobby by patient group and industry body political and journalistic campaign and government policy and commitment .
 variant aspect .
 the goal and strategy that be set out in the first section of the organisation model be assume to be invariant in the sense that they will not change as the result of the adoption of a propose kbs .
 in the second section of the model we set out aspect of the organisation that be at least potentially subject to change .
 this variant aspect include the structure of the organisation concern business process the agent involve in those process and the resource and knowledge asset that they use .
 structure .
 the structure of the organisation provide care to suspect breast cancer patient in the united kingdom be outline in a patient 's first point of contact with the system be likely to be through a visit to gp or through a screening programme .
 if this contact give reason for concern then the patient will be referred to a specialist breast clinic in a local hospital manage by an nhs acute trust .
 the acute trust provide service that be commission by a primary care trust which operate under strategic direction provide by local strategic health authority .
 full-size image organisational structure .
 view within article .
 the breast clinic will have facility for examination biopsy procedure report and consultation .
 radiology resource such ultrasound and mammography should be close at hand for easy access and report .
 breast clinic work very closely with a designate multidisciplinary team mdt which discuss the case and recommend far course of action .
 process .
 the primary business process be set out in the figure illustrate the various task that be perform during an individual patient 's progress from diagnosis to treatment .
 the process be set out as a uml activity diagram in which round-edged rectangle represent task that be perform and sharp-edged rectangle represent information object that be produce during this task .
 solid line between task be use to indicate control flow whereas dash line represent datum flow if control flow follow the same path as datum flow then it be not show separately .
 full-size image 45k overall business process .
 view within article .
 the patient 's initial point of contact with the system will be through a visit to gp or via screening .
 if this initial contact give cause for concern then the patient will be referred for triple assessment the triple assessment process be set out in much detail in 5 .
 full-size image triple assessment process .
 view within article .
 triple assessment produce a provisional diagnosis which will be examine by the multidisciplinary team who will arrive at a definitive diagnosis .
 fine needle aspiration or core biopsy may be perform as part of the triple assessment process where appropriate .
 however in some case the mdt may request that a much extensive open biopsy be perform .
 patient history indicate a high genetic risk of cancer may be referred to a geneticist .
 in addition to the primary process set out in 4 there be secondary business process design for quality assurance peer review public education professional training and management coordination .
 the triple assessment process be outline in the first element of assessment consist of clinical examination and the gathering of patient history and demographic datum .
 if this initial examination reveal an abnormality then the patient will be referred for imaging ultrasound mammography or both and needle biopsy .
 biopsy may be by fine needle aspiration fna or a large sample may be obtain by core biopsy .
 in some case the patient will initially be referred for fna biopsy but inconclusive result from this procedure will necessitate receiving a core biopsy as well .
 mammograms be generally take by a radiographer and later interpret by a radiologist .
 ultrasound image be take by a radiologist who will interpret them at the same time .
 the triple assessment workflow may differ from that shown in 5 as a result of availability or non-availability of datum or resource .
 for instance image datum may already be available to the surgeon at the time of the first visit allow imaging task to be omit .
 integration of the kbs into business process .
 the kbs will be use to provide decision support at four point in the business process .
 it will be use to assist in the determination of the risk category during the genetic risk assessment task it will assist in the choice of imaging modality mammography or ultrasound or both or neither which be perform during the clinical assessment task it will also be use in the biopsy decision task to assist in the decision as to the nature of biopsy to perform and finally it will be use in the management decision task in order to decide how to manage the patient .
 people .
 triple assessment be a collaborative activity involve the follow participant baso .
 surgeon the primary care of patient with breast cancer be currently the responsibility of surgeon .
 radiologist part of diagnostic team and involve in decision-making about appropriate imaging and report .
 radiographer have joint responsibility for monitoring and maintain standard of procedure equipment and report as set out in nhsbsp .
 cytologist be part of diagnostic team and work closely with breast surgeon .
 report result of fine needle aspiration fna biopsy and maintain standard set out by the nhs breast screening programme nhsbsp .
 pathologist work closely with breast surgeon and radiologist and report on core biopsy as per nhsbsp standard .
 breast care nurse should be present at the time of give positive result to the patient and discuss treatment option .
 general nurse may act as chaperone .
 geneticist part of cancer treatment team rather than breast cancer team .
 has no direct involvement in day to day activity of breast team .
 clinical admin staff adequate clerical support be require to maintain good communication with patient gp and other member of the breast team .
 resources .
 setting up a dedicate diagnostic service which can offer triple assessment in a single visit involve capital and human resource cost include equipment dedicate mammotome machine ultrasound machine space extra man hour for immediate reporting of image cytology audiovisual equipment to assist the multidisciplinary team in discussion of individual case and administrative support .
 additional resource will be require for setting-up computerised decision support .
 this include datum capture and storage facility such as an electronic patient record epr and a picture archiving system pacs for image and pathology datum .
 knowledge .
 knowledge be a resource which because of particular importance in a kbs be describe separately from all other resource .
 the principal knowledge asset use in the business process describe here be guideline set out by organisation such as the national institute for health and clinical excellence nice and various tacit skill involve in surgical task and in communication with patient .
 this knowledge asset be describe and evaluate the follow two section .
 process breakdown .
 the organisation model include a breakdown of the task involve in the business process outline in the previous section .
 for each task we identify who perform the task and where within the organisational structure it be perform .
 we also identify the knowledge asset use in the task determine whether the task can be describe as knowledge intensive and give a rough indication of significance .
 the term significance be leave deliberately vague in the specification of the commonkads methodology as different definition may be appropriate in different case .
 in the present case we take the significance to be a subjective measure of the likelihood that physical patient harm would arise if the task be perform incorrectly .
 the significance be express as a rough numerical estimate on a scale from least risk to 5 great risk .
 the task involve in the triple assessment process itself be describe in table .
 table .
 process breakdown for the triple assessment process .
 taskperformed bywhereknowledge assetsknowledge clinical examinationsurgeonbreast clinictacit skill and baso sign guidelinesyes5 historysurgeonbreast clinicbaso sign guidelinesyes4 genetic risk assessmentsurgeonbreast clinic nice 5 demographicsbreast care nurse or surgeonbreast clinicnoneno2 clinical assessmentsurgeonbreast clinic baso sign nccn and acr 1996 yes5 mammographyradiographermammography clinic breast clinic nhsbsp tacit skillsyes3 mammo interpretationradiologistbreast clinic nhsbsp and nhsbsp tacit skillsyes5 ultrasoundradiologistultrasound clinic breast clinic tacit knowledgeyes5 us interpretationradiologistultrasound clinic breast clinic nhsbsp yes5 biopsy assessmentradiologist and surgeonbreast clinic or mammography clinic or ultrasound clinic baso nccn nhsbsp and sign yes5 fnaradiologist cytologist or surgeonbreast clinictacit skillsyes5 fna interpretationcytologistcytology labtacit skill nhsbsp yes5 core biopsysurgeon or radiologistbreast clinictacit skillsyes5 management decisionsurgeonbreast clinic baso sign and nccn yes5 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 knowledge asset .
 the knowledge asset involve in the business process be resource of such importance that they be give a section to themselves in the organisation model .
 a complete analysis list all the knowledge asset involve in the business process describe which task they be use in who own them and identify any limitation in availability or quality .
 in particular it evaluate whether the form in which knowledge asset be provide paper digital be appropriate to the task in which it be use whether the knowledge be make available at the right place and the right time and whether quality be sufficient .
 the knowledge asset use in the triple assessment process have already be identify in table we shall not list them separately because very similar comment can be make about all of them .
 all of this knowledge asset be all of high quality and available at the right time and place those asset use in the task for which the kbs provide support must be convert into a suitable digital form .
 feasibility analysis .
 the organisation model conclude with a set of initial observation on the feasibility of the propose kbs .
 feasibility be assess along three axis business feasibility which concern itself with the benefit cost and business risk result from adoption of the kbs technical feasibility which express the technical difficulty and risk involve and project feasibility which deal with the possible problem involve in acquire the necessary commitment and resource to implement the kbs and with the internal and external communication that will be necessary to the development process .
 in the case concern here we might make the follow initial observation .
 business feasibility .
 the principal benefit result from adoption of the kbs propose here would be a reduction in the number of error arise during triple assessment .
 have demonstrate that in general computerised decision support system improve practitioner compliance with guideline for disease management .
 a prototype implementation of the triple assessment kbs have be create and initial trial use this implementation on paper patient have indicate that use result in a significant reduction in the number of error make in the triple assessment process .
 it be likely that the business feasibility of the propose system would depend on an electronic patient record epr system be in existence as otherwise the cost of the datum entry would be prohibitive .
 technical feasibility .
 a considerable body of experience have be build up on the computerised representation of medical guideline and many framework have be design for create such representation hripcsak et 1994 miksch et 1997 musen et 1996 ohno-machado et 1998 peleg et quaglini et and sutton and fox .
 the proforma language and associate tallis toolset have be use to encapsulate clinical guideline in a variety of setting bury et humber et and sutton et .
 the technical feasibility of the system be strongly link to existence of epr system as be business feasibility .
 trial and pilot study be possible without such a system but comprehensive deployment of the kbs describe here be likely to be impractical .
 project feasibility .
 initial consultation with clinician participate in the first trial of the system reveal a number of factor that would be likely to favour acceptance of the system and a number that would mitigate against such acceptance .
 there be a general agreement be that the use of the kbs would improve patient care 16 clinician respond positively to this question after the trial and 11 have become much confident after the trial .
 the clinicians feel that a kbs would definitely reduce variation in practice .
 they also feel that a kbs would be helpful from medico-legal point of view as it document the decision as well and underlie medical evidence .
 however some clinician feel that the use of the kbs might slow down the process of assessment particular if clinical staff involve be not comfortable with the use of computer and other question the need for a kbs argue that the assessment pathway involve have already be give adequate paper definition .
 some clinician also point out that the use of a kbs can affect the doctor patient relationship .
 the system generally fit well with the mission goal principle and strategy outline in previous section of the paper .
 an effective kbs have the potential to facilitate early diagnosis uniformity in standard of care monitoring of treatment .
 a kbs may also provide a much effective way of disseminate guideline than a paper-based method .
 the comment elicit from clinician however highlight the need to consider the psychosocial effect of the use of a kbs because of the effect on the doctor patient relationship .
 they also raise the possibility that a kbs may conflict with the aim of minimize the time require for diagnosis particularly if staff be not train effectively in use .
 required change to variant aspect .
 if the kbs be to be use the follow change would be necessary to the variant aspect identify in the precede section people no new role would be create but clinician would need to be train in the use of the kbs .
 processes the structure of the business process would be unchanged but the kbs would be use to provide decision support at various point as previously describe .
 knowledge asset the knowledge asset use during triple assessment must be analyse and suitable proforma process description create from them .
 this have already be do during the creation of the kbs use in the initial trial and domain expert have check that the result process description be consistent with the original paper guideline .
 resources for reason previously mention the kbs would need to be integrate with an epr if it be to be use in a routine manner .
 conceptual analysis .
 in the conceptual modelling stage of commonkads analysis a knowledge model be create that describe the knowledge that the system will be require to represent and the reasoning that it will need to perform .
 the commonkads methodology divide knowledge intensive task into a number of basic type and describe a template knowledge model for each type which can be adapt to create a knowledge model specific to the particular task s that a system must perform .
 the task to be perform by the system we consider here can be describe in commonkads terminology as a compound of four separate assessment task .
 an assessment task be one in which a case have to be assess against a number of criterion and then place into one of a number of category .
 the first of the four assessment task that the system perform be an assessment of the patient 's genetic risk of breast cancer classify as high great than lifetime risk medium 17 lifetime risk or low little than lifetime risk .
 the second assessment task be the choice of appropriate imaging modality mammography or ultrasound or both or neither .
 the third task be to choose what type of biopsy if any be appropriate .
 the final task be to choose how to manage the patient the option include referral to geneticist and or referral to a multidisciplinary team meeting .
 a commonkads knowledge model have three component .
 the first component the domain knowledge consist of a domain schema which describe the type of knowledge that the kbs must represent and a knowledge base describe particular instance of those knowledge type .
 the second component the inference knowledge describe the reasoning that the kbs must be capable of perform with knowledge .
 the third component the task knowledge describe how the system use reasoning and representation capability in order to perform the knowledge intensive task s for which it be design .
 domain schema .
 each of the four assessment task perform by the system can be model use the domain schema set out in 6 which be a simple adaptation of the schema propose in the commonkads template model .
 in this model the patient state be decomposed into a set of separate patient datum .
 this datum can be interpret as provide a set of argument for or against various decision candidate .
 full-size image 21k domain schema .
 view within article .
 an argument include a warrant which describe the reason for apply the argument a backing which identify research finding or guideline support the argument an evidencegrade that indicate the strength of the evidence in favour of the argument and a weight that describe the importance to be give to the argument when choose a decision candidate for instance some argument may be sufficient by themselves to require or to rule out a particular candidate other need to be consider alongside other argument .
 as an example an argument against perform mammography apply if a patient 's age be little than the warrant for this argument be the increase risk of radiation hazard and the very low sensitivity of mammography in this age group .
 the back be a british association of surgical oncology baso guideline document which make this recommendation .
 the evidence grade be iii meaning that it be support by well design non-experimental descriptive study case control study or correlation study .
 the weight of the argument be that it be an absolute contraindication .
 the schema show in 6 use commonkads graphical language which be an extension of the unified modelling language uml rumbaugh jacobson booch .
 the principal extension make to the uml be the introduction of rule type which be represent as oval .
 a rule type represent a set of constraint that exist on the relationship between instance of class in the schema .
 the rule type argumentation rule represent the set of constraint that determine whether a give argument be relevant give the patient state .
 the decision rule be the set of constraint that determine whether a give decision candidate should be adopt give the argument for and against that candidate .
 knowledge base .
 the knowledge base for the kbs consist of instance of the argument and decision candidate class along with instance of the two rule type in the diagram .
 as an example the knowledge base for the second of the two assessment task that the system must perform that of choose an appropriate imaging modality include the follow instance among many other an instance of the decision candidate class represent the option of perform a mammography on both breast .
 an instance of the argument class that would become relevant if the woman be at high genetic risk of breast cancer and over year old .
 an instance of the decision rule type indicate that the argument above would be sufficient for the aforementioned candidate to be recommend so long as there be no countervailing argument such as the possibility of the patient be pregnant .
 inference knowledge .
 the inference knowledge section describe the reasoning step that the kbs must be able to perform .
 the inference knowledge for the system consider here can be describe use the inference structure describe in 7 which be adapt from the commonkads template model for assessment task .
 full-size image 15k inference structure .
 view within article .
 the oval in the figure represent the inference that the system must be capable of perform .
 specifically give a patient state the system must be capable of work out which argument need to be evaluate .
 this be represent by the specify inference .
 the system must be capable of evaluate those argument to see if they be true or not .
 this be represent by the evaluate inference .
 the system must be capable of use the evaluate argument to arrive at appropriate decision candidate s as represent by the match inference .
 task knowledge .
 the task knowledge section of the knowledge model describe the goal of the task that the kbs be require to perform and the method that it be require to adopt in order to achieve this goal .
 the goal of the four task perform by the triple assessment system have already be outline .
 they be to make evidence-based assessment of the genetic risk that the patient run the appropriate imaging and biopsy to perform and the strategy for manage the patient .
 this task can each be achieve by a straightforward combination of the inference describe in 7 in which appropriate argument be specify and then evaluate until sufficient datum be available for the match inference to arrive at a decision candidate for the task be perform .
 design .
 the commonkads methodology describe a strategy for transform the requirement identify in the conceptual modelling phase into a design for a kbs .
 we first identify the general software architecture for the system and the hardware and software on which this architecture be to be implement .
 then we decompose the architecture into separate component and describe how the element identify during conceptual analysis domain schema and inference can be implement within this architecture .
 the methodology include worksheets that can be use to control the various phase in this process .
 for the prototype version of the system a model-view-controller architecture have be adopt with the model implement use the tallis implementation of proforma and the view and controller implement use java server page servlets javascript and cascading style 8 show a screenshot of the system .
 full-size image 46k screenshot of prototype system .
 view within article .
 in order to construct the system it be necessary to translate the element identify during conceptual modelling domain schema knowledge basis inference and task method into proforma task candidate and argument .
 for the much part this be a straightforward exercise since the four assessment task the decision candidate and the argument identify in conceptual analysis can be map fairly directly into proforma task argument and candidate .
 however some problem occur when translate commonkads rule into proforma due to limitation in the way that proforma use argument to arrive at decision .
 for instance proforma do not allow an argument to be associate with much than one candidate which mean that it be difficult to represent case where an argument in favour of one candidate be an argument against another .
 discussion .
 we have use the commonkads methodology to analyse the requirement and design of a kbs that be implement use the proforma knowledge representation language .
 this exercise reveal some strength and weakness of both the methodology and the knowledge representation language .
 a major advantage to the use of the commonkads methodology lie in the emphasis that it place on analysis of the organisation that will use a kbs and the clear picture that be generate of the aim strategy business process and knowledge asset of the organisation .
 this allow knowledge engineer and project manager to arrive at well inform judgement of the feasibility of a kbs and of the good way of integrate it into the organisation 's operation .
 this i of particular importance in case such as that consider here where the kbs will form a part of a much large process involve many separate participant .
 however the methodology be not specifically design for medical system and may require some extension if it be to deal with them .
 in particular when intervene medically it be necessary to produce hard evidence for the efficacy of such an intervention usually in the form of a clinical trial .
 this mean that the feasibility analysis that take place during contextual analysis should ideally include an analysis of whether such a trial be in fact possible deal with question such as whether it be feasible to recruit sufficient number of patient into a trial .
 in general the proforma language prove well-adapted to the project describe in this paper .
 the task that the kbs be require to perform be assessment task that involve a choice between a set of pre-determined candidate .
 proforma be well suit to such task because they can be directly represent use the argument candidate and decision class as describe in .
 some problem occur when proforma be use to represent operation that require the examination of set of complex entity .
 an example of this can be see if we consider the knowledge representation requirement for the first of the assessment task which the kbs must perform that of assess the patient 's genetic risk .
 the argument and argumentation rule for this task require examination of the medical history of the patient 's relative .
 for example if a patient have two second degree relative who be diagnose with breast cancer before the age of then this would be consider as an argument for assess to be at medium risk provide that there be no argument for assess the degree of risk to be high .
 proforma 's datum structure allow for datum item with simple scalar value integer real number or text string .
 it also allow for datum item value be set of simple value set of integer .
 however when we consider a patient 's relative it be natural to regard each relative as a complex entity that be to say an entity with property such as date of birth date of diagnosis if any and so on .
 the risk can be much easily calculate by evaluate a set of such entity to determine how many of them possess particular property .
 because proforma lack facility to represent such set of entity the representation of the argumentation involve in genetic risk assessment be somewhat clumsy .
 a similar problem arise when it be necessary to represent the lesion reveal during examination of the patient .
 a lesion would naturally be represent as a complex entity and the patient might have a set of such lesion .
 the resultant complexity of the proforma expression use to reason over collection of entity create difficulty when one attempt to verify that the implementation correctly implement the requirement of the system .
 however there be no inherent reason why the proforma language not be extend to represent set of complex entity and expression that involve query such set .
 the weakness discuss in this section might therefore good be consider as sign that proforma require far development rather than as evidence of any basic structural problem .
 conclusion .
 the commonkads analysis of the kbs describe in this feature have clarify reasoning and knowledge representation requirement .
 it have also enable a clear picture to be build up of the manner in which the kbs would fit in to exist business process and allow us to reason about the feasibility of adopt it .
 the feasibility of the system be dependent on the availability of suitable epr system .
 it be also necessary to address the training of user and the usability of the interface in order to ensure that use do not slow down the assessment of patient .
 there be limitation in the expressiveness of the proforma language that may create problem in ensure that a proforma implementation correctly implement the reasoning requirement of the system .
 if the problem describe in the previous paragraph can be overcome a kbs along the line describe in this paper provide useful assistance in meet the state objective of early diagnosis uniformity in standard of care and monitoring of treatment .
 breast conservation technique demonstrate similar survival rate when compare to mastectomy however this surgery have demonstrate high level of local recurrence than radical local recurrence after breast conservative surgery be much frequent in patient without radiotherapy and usually occur in the tumor suggest that residual disease may remain after the primary treatment .
 the breast surgical procedure be usually based on breast palpation mammography ultrasound and much recently magnetic resonance imaging mri .
 since all this method may underestimate the real extent of the disease the ability to distinguish malignant tissue from normal tissue have become a challenge to resection margin evaluation have become an important method to assess the local cancer control however due to the high multifocality of breast a tumor-free margin do not necessarily indicate that the remain breast tissue be cancer-cell 99mtc-sestamibi be the much commonly use radiopharmaceutical for the detection of breast cancer and be the first to be approve by the food and drug administration fda for scintimammography .
 the drug have an affinity for cancer cell probably due to high metabolism and mitochondrial concentration .
 thus scintimammography with 99mtc-sestamibi have show an overall sensitivity of and specificity of in detect breast in addition it have be widely use for multifocal and multicentric breast carcinoma .
 previous study have demonstrate the use of 99mtc-sestamibi in breast cancer surgery to localize occult breast carcinoma and to guide since 99mtc-sestamibi uptake be high in cancer cell than breast normal cell it may be use as a radioguide in breast cancer surgery .
 thus radioguided surgery use intravenous 99mtc-sestamibi associate with breast magnetic resonance imaging mri for breast cancer resection have be test with mri be a high definition image examination that have show a good correlation with real tumor size16 and to be well than mammography ultrasound and palpation in determine the tumor in this context in order to achieve a much specific method to estimate the real extent of disease and reduce residual disease in breast cancer resection we have develop a novel technique that we have entitle radioguided intraoperative margin evaluation rime .
 thus the aim of this study be to assess whether rime be a feasible technique and whether it may help in breast cancer resection with free margin and minimize residual disease .
 patient and method patient selection .
 twenty-three breast cancer woman stage iia iiia schedule for mastectomy be consecutively select from january to december at the women 's integral healthcare center of the university of campinas .
 the follow inclusion criterion be use histologic diagnosis of invasive ductal carcinoma by core biopsy or incisional biopsy unifocal and unilateral tumor on clinical examination recent mammography at least 1 month .
 patient with excisional biopsy neoadjuvant chemotherapy recurrent disease presence of metallic material in the body and claustrophobia be exclude .
 the ethic committee of the institution above approve the study and all patient give inform consent .
 scintimammography .
 two to ten day before mastectomy all patient be submit to scintimammography with 99mtc-sestamibi .
 the radiolabeling and quality control procedure for 99mtc-sestamibi cardiolite bristol-myers squibb medical imaging massachusetts usa be carry out accord to the manufacturer 's instruction .
 briefly scintimammography be perform in a dual-head gamma camera sopha dst sopha medical vision equip with a low-energy parallel hole collimator with the patient place in a prone position .
 a mci dose of 99mtc-sestamibi be inject into a pedal vein previously catheterized with a sterile plastic cannula follow by ml of saline solution .
 breast planar image with a matrix size of 256256 pixels be acquire in the lateral and posterior oblique view .
 image of the chest and axillary region be obtain in the anterior view .
 dynamic image of the breast with tumor be obtain in a lateral view for 15 min after 99mtc-sestamibi administration .
 on the dynamic image the region of interest roi be draw around the tumor target and normal tissue background bg and time activity curve be generate .
 in each patient the optimal time to perform radioguided surgery be estimate based on the time in which the target-to-background ratio be maximum .
 image and curve be analyzed by photograph and direct reading on a computer screen use a double-blinded method perform by two nuclear physician .
 full-size image 39k figure scintimammography with 99mtc-sestamibi lateral view use roi technique in the tumor 1 and normal breast tissue 2 .
 view within article .
 full-size image 21k figure time activity curve for scintimammography with 99mtc-sestamibi .
 line 1 represent the tumor line 2 represent normal breast tissue and line t show the optimal time to begin rime in this case .
 view within article .
 magnetic resonance imaging .
 mri be perform with a device elscint gyrex 2t prestige elscint ltd haifa israel on the same day of scintimammography in patient .
 patient be position prone on an imaging table with breast hang freely into a cushion recess contain dedicate breast coil .
 imaging sequence be t1 with fat saturation te 16 tr ta nex 2 4 mm with no gap matrix t2 with fat saturation te 96 tr ta nex 2 4 mm with no gap matrix and 3d gradient-echo sequence previous and at 1 2 5 and 6 min after contrast injection .
 a bolus of mmol kg gadolinium viewgam bacon laboratory bueno aires argentina be intravenously inject into an upper limb vein after prior catheterization with a sterile plastic cannula .
 t1 and t2 sequence be perform in three plane coronal sagittal and axial .
 a 3d gradient-echo sequence be perform in the sagittal plane .
 the size of any capture image corresponding to the tumor be estimate .
 measurement in the three diameter be take in millimeters and other focus of contrast uptake be evaluate as well as cancer involvement of the skin and deep fascia .
 all image be interpret in a photograph film of select view by the same radiologist .
 full-size image 37k figure magnetic resonance imaging of the breast show tumor before a and after contrast administration b in the 3d gradient-echo sequence .
 view within article .
 radioguided intraoperative margin evaluation rime at the time of surgery after anesthesia a bolus of mbq 99mtc-sestamibi be intravenously inject as describe above .
 in each patient the optimal time to begin radioguided surgery estimate previously be await .
 firstly the radiation count of the contralateral breast without cancer be measure with a hand-held gamma-detecting probe guidance europrobe system eurorad france and determine as bg .
 subsequently the radiation count of the tumor always high than normal tissue bg be perform use the same procedure .
 thereafter a segmentectomy be perform use the gamma-probe to determine the resection margin .
 starting from the tumor site all margin be consider tumor-free when radiation count be equivalent to bg count .
 thus the tumor be surgically excise .
 the presence of a residual radioactivity high than bg in the tumor bed be check and the resection margin be enlarge if any residual radioactivity be detect .
 the hand-held gamma-probe be always angle away from the chest wall of the patient .
 the ex vivo count of the segmentectomy and margin be also identify with the hand-held gamma-probe .
 finally all patient be submit to modify radical mastectomy as originally plan .
 sutures identify the margin of segmentectomy and residual breast .
 both be send for histopathological analysis .
 in the patient who realize mri we analyzed tumoral involvement of the skin or deep fascia and presence of other eventual small tumor focus .
 the mri be also use to help the performance of rime .
 histopathology analysis .
 the tumor bed in the residual breast and margin of segmentectomy be mark with china ink .
 the surgical specimen be longitudinally cut into section and a macroscopic examination be perform .
 all macroscopically suspicious area and 3 to 4 much non-suspicious area in each sector of the residual breast be select for inclusion in paraffin block .
 all area be identify to determine distance of tumor in the segmentectomy specimen or tumor bed in the residual breast specimen .
 the slice be stain with hematoxylin eosin and examine under an optical microscope .
 any ductal carcinoma be consider as a residual disease focus in the residual breast specimen .
 statistical analysis .
 mean standard deviation median and frequency be use to describe outcome .
 the association between the presence of residual disease and margin status be analyzed use fisher 's exact test .
 for continuous variable student 's t-test or wilcoxon 's test be use .
 data analysis be perform with sas software version sas institute cary nc .
 a p-value be consider statistically significant .
 result rime feasibility and margin status .
 clinical datum be show in table the rime technique be successfully perform in all patient and the principal tumor be excise by this technique .
 nineteen patient have histologically free margin in the segmentectomy and 4 patient have focally involve margin .
 three of the involve margin be in situ ductal carcinoma and 1 be an invasive ductal carcinoma .
 the mean of the minimal margin of segmentectomy be mm median mm range 15 and there be no significant difference between patient with and without residual disease in mean minimal margin value mm v mm p .
 table 2 compare the presence and absence of residual disease with regard to margin status .
 table .
 clinical characteristic of patient and tumor n 23 characteristicsn age year mean median51 range29 .
 committed breast right12 left11 .
 site of tumor upper outer quadrant9 upper inner quadrant6 lower outer quadrant4 lower inner quadrant4 .
 biopsy core21 incisional2 .
 clinical tumor size mm mean 61 .
 mammographic tumor size mm mean range13 55 .
 clinical staging iib9 iiia4 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 table .
 association between residual disease and margin status of segmentectomy use rime .
 margin statusresidual diseasep-valuea absencepresence 1 1 .
 .
 full-size table .
 a fisher 's exact test .
 view within article .
 disease residual .
 the rime promote the absence of residual disease in 11 patient .
 twenty patient present residual disease 6 in situ ductal carcinoma and 6 invasive ductal carcinoma .
 the mean size of residual disease be mm median 3 mm range 1 7 .
 after segmentectomy 3 patient present residual radioactivity high than bg in the tumor bed and resection margin be enlarge .
 the histopathological evaluation reveal non-palpable residual disease in all of the 3 patient .
 table 3 demonstrate the distribution of the patient accord to distance of residual disease focus to tumor bed .
 table .
 distribution of patient accord to distance of residual disease rd focus to tumor bed .
 distance of rda to tumor without 1 .
 total23 full-size table .
 a rd residual disease .
 view within article .
 tumor and segmentectomy size .
 the mean tumor size in mri be mm sd median mm range 16 54 n .
 there be no association between the tumor size detect during clinical examination mammography mri or histopathological analysis and presence of residual disease .
 on the other hand the volume of segmentectomy realize by rime in patient without residual disease be high than in patient with residual disease cm3 v cm3 p table 4 .
 table .
 association between tumor and segmentectomy size with presence of residual disease .
 residual disease rd p-value absence n 11 presence n 12 mean sdmedianmean sdmedian tumor size large diameter mm a clinical .
 tumor volume cm3 c .
 segmentectomy larger diameter mm volume cm3 .
 full-size table .
 a student 's t-test .
 b twenty patient perform mri absence of rd and presence of rd .
 c wilcoxon 's test .
 view within article .
 scintimammography radiation count and pathology outcome .
 the intensity of uptake in scintimammography be high in 11 case moderate in 5 case and mild in 7 case .
 the median optimal time for perform the rime technique be 5 min range 1 8 min .
 the radiation count in the tumor range from to cps mean sd median and in the contralateral breast bg range from to cps mean sd median .
 the mean radiation count background tumor ratio be 2 median range 4 .
 all patient demonstrate focal 99mtc-sestamibi uptake during scintimammography .
 the median number of fragment examine under a microscope be per patient range 33 83 include the tumor and residual breast and there be no difference in the number of fragment evaluate between the patient with and without residual disease p .
 discussion .
 the persistence of cancer cell in residual breast after conservative surgery be undesirable and associate with local recurrence .
 since the tumor bed be commonly the site of recurrence and the local recurrence be much frequent when radiotherapy be it have be suggest that residual disease remain after conservative surgery .
 at this moment there be no diagnostic technique to guide the complete excision of the cancer during conservative surgery .
 some technique such as intraoperative ultrasound19 and intraoperative pathological monitorization of surgical have be study to access the tumor margin during surgical procedure since tumor-free margin have be associate with a well cancer local control .
 however a tumor-free margin do not necessarily indicate absence of residual in the present study 19 patient have tumor-free margin however 8 of this individual have residual disease .
 this result be in agreement with a previous study that show presence of residual carcinoma in of patient who have free margin after conservative .
 fundamentals of rime .
 several study have demonstrate that breast cancer be frequently a multifocal complicate the complete resection of cancer during breast-conserving surgery due to the difficulty in identify the small focus of carcinoma within normal tissue .
 radioguided surgery have become routine in breast cancer surgery with technique such as sentinel lymph node biopsy and radioguided occult lesion localization roll be use .
 some study have employ radioguided surgery with intravenous injection of 99mtc-sestamibi for the breast although aim be to diagnose rime can help margin evaluation and attempt to find other carcinoma focus in residual breast based on the high metabolism in tumor than in normal breast .
 therefore the rime technique employ the rationale that 99mtc-sestamibi have a high affinity for tumor cell than normal breast tissue allow the differentiation between breast carcinoma and normal adjacent tissue under the guidance of a gamma-probe .
 currently this concept be also apply in parathyroid adenoma the exact mechanism of 99mtc-sestamibi accumulation in tumor cell be not completely understand however it seem to be associate with a high metabolic activity and a specific uptake in the mitochondria .
 although 99mtc-sestamibi may theoretically access all tumor focus study show that some small carcinoma focus be not detect by scintimammography and mri .
 unfortunately since residual disease be find in some patient after rime technique also present drawback .
 however the size of carcinoma residual focus be small mean mm and in half be in situ ductal carcinoma .
 in agreement with the present investigation some study have also show that tumor below 1 cm in diameter and carcinoma in situ be poorly detectable by scintimammography use the gamma-probe probably do not easily differentiate small carcinoma focus from normal tissue due to similarly low radiation count .
 on the other hand mri be able to detect breast carcinoma of small than 1 overcome scintimammography limitation .
 although patient have perform mri we verify that one half of this present residual disease .
 the role of mri during rime be important to evaluate .
 apparently mri be omit from the technique however evaluation of the involvement of the skin deep fascia and other tumor focus that should be find with the gamma-probe during rime be essential .
 factor associate with residual disease .
 veronesi et show that the site of local recurrence in breast conservative surgery be restrict in the resection area .
 this datum be in accordance with schnitt et who report that the recurrence in the treat breast be much frequently near the primary tumor site .
 although both study suggest that residual disease remain close to the tumor bed the distance of focus from the tumor bed be unknown .
 holland et use mastectomy specimen find that carcinoma focus be place at a distance 2 cm from the index tumor in and 4 cm in of case .
 by mean of rime we show that the majority of focus be close to the tumor bed in patient with residual disease .
 thus after perform the rime technique if the margin be enlarge by about 1 cm absence of residual disease be obtain in 18 case .
 thus if the margin be enlarge by about cm 21 patient would have remain without carcinoma in the residual breast and just 2 patient would have residual disease far from the margin .
 this 2 patient present multicentric carcinoma carcinoma focus much than 5 cm from the tumor bed and the tumor focus be not identify by clinical examination mammography mri or the rime technique .
 in addition since the focus of the residual carcinoma after rime be small and localized close to the primary tumor it be important to verify whether this be treat with radiotherapy mainly with a high boost dose of radiation .
 the margin resection status in conservative surgery have be consider as a predictor factor of tumor local recurrence in several suggest that the margin be relate to residual disease .
 however in this study the margin status as well as tumor size be not associate with the permanence of residual disease .
 additionally the tumor size as measure during clinical examination mammography mri and histopathologic examination be not statistically different between patient with and without residual disease in all diagnostic method .
 nevertheless use rime the volume of segmentectomy be high in patient without residual carcinoma .
 this result be consistent with the prior observation of the milan trial ii which demonstrate a well local control of the disease when much extensive surgical resection be .
 methodological aspect .
 it be important to emphasize some of the aspect relate to the methodology use in this study .
 firstly all patient have palpable tumor and therefore the resection also be guide by clinician sense .
 in fact rime application in conservative surgery for non-palpable cancer seem to be much interesting .
 however patient with non-palpable cancer be usually submit to conservative surgery and for ethical reason this preliminary evaluation of the rime effectiveness not be carry out in this patient .
 therefore in order to determine and quantify residual disease breast-conserving surgery be only simulate use rime in patient with large tumor mean size by clinical exam mm schedule for mastectomy .
 since a previous study demonstrate that the local recurrence rate increase with the increase in tumor it be speculate that the frequency of residual disease be low if the select patient have small tumor .
 in addition residual disease have be widely study by histological analysis and the median number of fragment examine under a microscope be holland et for example study multifocal disease examine a mean of fragment per patient .
 the high rate of residual disease observe in the current study be relate to unusually meticulous histological evaluation .
 the radioactivity exposure to the surgeon during rime operation be also observe and have show to be safe similar to that occur during exposure in sentinel lymph node mapping .
 finally since 11 patient present leave breast tumor it be necessary to angle the probe away from the chest wall during rime to avoid count of 99mtc-sestamibi physiological uptake by the heart .
 therefore heart or liver physiological uptake do not influence radioguided surgery .
 conclusion .
 this study show that rime be a feasible technique that help tumor resection and free margin assessment .
 however the rime have not promote complete breast cancer resection since it seem to be limited to small focus tumor detection .
 despite this the current study present attractive preliminary outcome for help breast surgery .
 firstly in 3 patient rime make residual disease detection possible after tumor removal that be undetectable by clinical examination and other technique of margin management .
 in addition the size and quantity of focus with residual disease after rime utilization be reduce .
 furthermore rime do not disturb the standard technique of breast-conserving surgery and be associate with intraoperative pathological margin finally far study should be consider in order to refine rime and to evaluate the relevance of this finding in breast-conserving surgery .
 it be recognize that individual risk of cancer may be relate to genetically determine difference in the ability of a cell to identify and repair dna damage and it have be suggest that individual who be genetically susceptible to cancer manifest this by exhibit increase dna radiosensitivity .
 radiosensitivity have be extensively study in breast cancer patient .
 it have be show that about of an unselected group of breast cancer case be find to be radiosensitive .
 in the study of scott and colleague the author also find that about of healthy control be radiosensitive .
 the deficient dna repair capacity have be propose to be a predispose factor in familial breast cancer and in some sporadic breast cancer case .
 genomic instability have also be describe for various hereditary cancer include breast cancer .
 this finding suggest that radiosensitivity actually be a potential predispose condition to breast cancer through mutation in low penetrance gene which may be gene involve in dna damage processing and repair .
 the development of assay and the definition of parameter with the potential of identify cancer prone individual be a topic of prime interest in the field of cancer .
 the recent implication of cancer relate gene in the processing or the regulation of processing of dna damage have make measurement of induction of repair of various form of dna damage an attractive putative predictor of cancer predisposition .
 despite current information a consensus have not yet be reach on cellular assay and breast cancer risk .
 some datum report in the literature be contradictory .
 some investigator find a high sensitivity and a reduce repair capacity in peripheral blood cell from breast cancer patient when expose to x-ray gamma and uv light as evaluate by the determination of chromosome aberration micronuclei mn and dna fragmentation by mean of the comet assay while other find no significant difference between the two end point of chromosomal aberration and dna repair .
 up to now an optimum method for the prediction of radiosensitivity and the good parameter have not be find .
 this have largely be in the context of assess inherent cellular radiosensitivity through damage induction or repair parameter .
 various experimental approach be use for the detection of dna strand break for example filter elution constant field gel electrophoresis pulsed-field gel electrophoresis pfge and the comet assay .
 the parameter much frequently analyzed with this test system be the initial dna damage the residual dna damage remain after a period of repair and the repair rate .
 the comet assay be already recognize as be among the much sensitive method available for measure dna strand break it have far advantage of speed simplicity and the fact that observation be make at the level of single cell .
 it be also an invaluable tool for investigate fundamental aspect of dna damage and cellular response to this damage .
 the alkaline comet assay resolve break frequency up to a few thousand per cell so the distance between break be of the order of da definitely well beyond the range of fragment size for which conventional electrophoresis be suitable .
 the alkaline comet assay detect single and double dna strand break whereas neutral condition detect mainly double-strand break .
 the neutral and alkaline method can both detect low level of dna damage and have be use to assess the rejoin of double-strand and single-strand break respectively .
 in the present study induction of dna damage and repair in leukocyte of breast cancer patient and healthy volunteer be compare after in vitro exposure with gamma ray use alkaline and neutral comet assay .
 material and .
 study subject blood cell and irradiation .
 twenty-nine breast cancer patient age between 29 and 87 year mean age be recruit at imam general hospital in tehran before mastectomy .
 none of them have be treat with chemotherapy or radiotherapy .
 thirty-five healthy volunteer age between 23 and 94 year mean age be select as a match group .
 the study be approve by the ethical committee of the school of medical science of the tarbiat modares university .
 patient give inform write consent .
 all donor complete a write questionnaire to obtain information relate to life style such as dietary habit medical history and exposure to chemical and physical agent .
 l of heparinized venous blood be add to the ml micro centrifuge tube contain 1 ml rpmi medium gibco brl supplement with fetal calf serum gibco brl .
 diluted blood be irradiate on ice with gamma ray at a dose rate of gy min generate from a source theratron canada .
 to compare radiation-induced dna damage between breast cancer patient and control cell be irradiate with 1 gy in alkaline version and 2 gy in neutral version .
 this radiation dose be select use the dose response curve construct for a healthy individual show intermediate level of damage in cell .
 to construct dose response curve sample obtain from healthy and cancer individual dna damage be analyse immediately after dose range from to 16 gy irradiation .
 dna repair be assess at 1 3 and 24 h after 4 gy irradiation for alkaline and 8 gy for neutral version by keep cell at 37 c and co2 before start of experiment .
 cryopreserved lymphocyte of a healthy individual be use as an internal standard and be assay at several experimental date .
 slide preparation .
 after irradiation the sample be centrifuged at the supernatant be pour off and the pelleted cell mix with l of 37 c lmp agarose fermentas lq agarose in pbs free .
 the cell mixture be add to the window make on frost slide sotooneh sari iran precoated with normal agarose merck and be immediately cover with a coverslip .
 the slide be place on a tray keep for min on ice to solidify .
 after solidification the coverslip be remove .
 alkaline comet assay .
 slide be submerse in an alkaline lysis solution m sodium chloride mm edta mm tris base dimethylsulfoxide sodium n-lauroyl sarcosinate and triton merck germany ph for 1 h at 4 lysis be follow by unwinding step by immerse the slide in a freshly prepare alkaline solution m naoh and 1 mm edta merck germany ph 13 in a horizontal gel electrophoresis tank paya pajouhesh iran for min at 4 electrophoresis be do at v cm for min at 4 the slide be wash three time in neutralization buffer mm tris buffer ph and rinse in ethanol for 5 min and air dry .
 neutral comet assay .
 slide be submerse for min at 4 c in lysis solution m sodium chloride mm edta mm tris base dimethylsulfoxide sodium lauroyl sarcosinate and triton merck germany ph .
 after lysis slide be rinse three time in tbe buffer mm tris 2 mm edta mm boric acid merck germany ph at 4 c for 5 min .
 slide be keep in a horizontal gel electrophoresis tank paya pajouhesh iran contain tbe buffer and electrophoresis be do at v cm for min at the slide be wash in water for 5 min and rinse in ethanol for 5 min and then air dry .
 staining microscopic analysis and experimental parameter .
 cell be stain with l ethidium bromide merck 2 g ml under a coverslip .
 observations be make at a magnification of use a nikon e epifluorescence microscope equip with 546-516 wavelength band and a nm barrier filter attach to a ccd camera .
 image of randomly select cell be analyzed from each code slide .
 the comet be analyzed by visual classification as describe by .
 damage be assign to five class 4 based on the visual aspect of the comet consider the extent of dna migration accord to the criterion establish by and .
 comets with a bright head and no tail be classify as class cell with no dna migration and comet with a small head and a long diffuse tail be classify as class 4 severely damage cell .
 comets with intermediate appearance be classify into class 1 2 and damage score be calculate based on the follow equation adopt from that range from to arbitrary unit corresponding to situation range from no damage comet to all comet extremely damage dd au n where dd au dna damage score n1 n4 number of class 4 comet n total number of score comet .
 coefficients 4 be weighting factor for each class of comet .
 one may suspect that the visual classification may be inferior to computerized analysis such as tail moment analysis of image capture by ccd camera .
 however have clearly show that there be no statistical difference between visual quantification and image analysis by computer for tail moment quantification .
 this method of quantification of dna damage by the comet assay be use by several other author .
 furthermore in the present study this semi-quantitative method give satisfactory result for in vitro-irradiated cell .
 whereas computerized analysis require expensive equipment and also software visual analysis can be do with only standard microscope .
 however to verify the validity of result obtain by visual analysis picture of cell for each incubation time after irradiation capture by ccd camera for repair study be analyzed automatically use casp software casp version .
 casp be a tool to image analysis in comet assay and have be develop to work with either color or gray-scale image of fluorescence-stained comet .
 as show in 4 the kinetic of repair be very similar and not significantly different from that obtain by visual analysis of comet .
 four experimental parameter be evaluate to characterize cellular radiation effect 1 baseline dna damage detectable in cell that have not be irradiate 2 induce dna damage measure directly after irradiation dd 3 net dna damage which be calculate by subtract the baseline dna damage from dna damage measure directly after irradiation 4 repair capacity be also estimate quantitatively at 1 3 and 24 h after irradiation after standardization use the follow equation adopt from standardizations be make by divide the actual value obtain in the irradiate sample by the value obtain in the non-irradiated control cell include in the same electrophoresis run .
 statistical analysis .
 all statistical analysis be carry out use graph pad prism software version difference between mean of initial radio-induced dna damage between group be test for significance with the two-sided unpaired student 's t-test .
 to analyze the result of residual dna damage between group the non-parametric mann whitney u-test be also use .
 figure be draw use sigma plot for windows version .
 .
 comparison of initial radiosensitivity of breast cancer patient with healthy volunteer .
 result be show in 1a and b .
 the figure present the range of assay parameter observe in the study subject as well as the median and the 25th 75th and percentile .
 non-irradiated cell of cancer patient exhibit noticeably high baseline amount of dna fragmentation and the mean value of background dna damage be statistically different in the breast cancer patient and healthy individual use alkaline p and neutral p version 1a and b .
 full-size image 41k box plot show baseline induce dna damage dd and net induce dna damage dd for control h and breast cancer patient bc measure by alkaline a and neutral b comet assay after exposure of 1 gy gamma ray .
 the box extend from the 25th percentile to the 75th percentile with a horizontal line at the median and a dot line at the mean value .
 the whisker present the and the of the datum .
 in addition all value that be locate outside the borderline mark by the whisker be present as point .
 view within article .
 induced dna damage be high in breast cancer patient than healthy control but this fail to reach statistical significance .
 net induce dna damage show nearly identical median solid line and mean value dot line for the control and the patient .
 in addition a very similar range of distribution be find for the result of the control and of the patient and be mark by the boundary of the box that represent the 25th and 75th percentile .
 patient with result lie within the 25 range of the healthy control be consider to show a normal cellular reaction to gamma-irradiation .
 in addition the patient exhibit little damage in non-irradiated or irradiate cell than mark by the 25 range be also classify as normal .
 the datum of some of the patient however differ considerably from this normal range .
 all patient who exhibit result lie outside the percentile of the healthy individual be consider to have abnormal experimental marker or to show a highly sensitive cellular reaction to gamma ray .
 regarding the background damage in non-irradiated cell about 3 of the 32 control and 5 of 29 breast cancer patient have value high than the basal cut point in alkaline version and about 3 of the 35 control and 3 of 28 breast cancer patient have value high than the basal cut point in neutral version .
 induced damage dd in irradiate cell yield about 3 of the 32 control and 5 of 29 breast cancer patient have value high than the induce cut point in alkaline version and about 3 of the 35 control and 2 of 28 breast cancer patient have value high than the induce cut point in neutral version .
 regarding the net induce dd damage 3 of the 32 control and 3 of 29 breast cancer patient have value high than the net induce cut point in alkaline version and about 3 of the 35 control and 1 of 28 breast cancer patient have value high than the net induce cut point in neutral version .
 statistical analysis show that there be no relationship between age and dna damage of breast cancer patient and healthy control regard baseline induce and net induce use both version of the comet assay .
 comparison of dose response relationship of breast cancer patient with healthy volunteer .
 2a and b show the dose response curve of the five breast cancer patient mean age year range between 43 and 75 and five healthy control mean age year range between 25 and 68 under the alkaline a and neutral b condition of the comet assay immediately after irradiation .
 the initial yield of dna damage of both cancer patient and control increase with radiation dose under both electrophoresis 2a and b demonstrate that mark difference can be observe when the initial radiation-induced dna damage be analyzed in lymphocyte of different healthy people or cancer patient and this be particularly true for dose up to 2 gy .
 the reduction in variability observe after 4 gy be primarily due to the fact that at dose exceed 4 gy only a marginal additional increase in the amount of dna in the tail of the comet be obtain under experimental condition .
 statistical analysis show there be no difference between the dose response curve of breast cancer patient and healthy volunteer use both version of the comet assay .
 full-size image 46k dose response curve of dna migration obtain for blood sample from five healthy donor full line and five breast cancer patient break line process immediately after in vitro exposure to use alkaline a and neutral b comet assay .
 each datum point represent mean sd of induce dna damage .
 view within article .
 study of repair kinetic .
 in order to investigate the rejoin of dna break the change in the residual dna damage in five breast cancer patient and five healthy volunteer at 1 3 and 24 h after exposure to gamma ray with 4 gy under the alkaline and 8 gy under neutral condition be show in 3a and b .
 there be inter-individual difference in repair capacity of blood lymphocyte in both group but this variability be much mark among 4 show the result obtain by automatic analysis of tail moment for repair kinetic of dna damage in both alkaline and neutral comet assay in this study .
 statistical analysis show significant difference for olive tail moment between normal individual and breast cancer patient for all incubation time after irradiation p .
 as see the kinetic of repair be very much similar and non-significantly different from that obtain by visual analysis of comet .
 as show in 3 and 4 use both version of comet assay the radio-induced damage be little efficiently repair among patient than among control .
 full-size image 41k repair kinetic in lymphocyte of five healthy donor and five breast cancer patient after in vitro exposure to 4 gy gamma ray in alkaline a and 8 gy in neutral b comet assay standardization be make by divide the actual value obtain in the irradiate sample by the value obtain in the non-irradiated control cell include in the same electrophoresis run .
 repair assess 1 3 and 24 h of incubation time .
 each datum point represent mean sd of standardized residual dna damage .
 view within article .
 full-size image 24k repair kinetic in lymphocyte of five healthy donor and five breast cancer patient after in vitro exposure to 4 gy gamma ray in alkaline and 8 gy in neutral comet assay .
 olive tail moment be calculate use casp image analysis software to assess repair of dna damage after 1 3 and 24 h of incubation time post irradiation .
 each datum point represent mean sd of olive tail moment .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 use the alkaline comet assay dna single-strand break ssb have be describe in peripheral blood lymphocyte pbl from breast cancer patient but there be no information concern the occurrence of double-strand break dsb in the same patient .
 to date no attempt have be make to study the occurrence and induction of both type of dna strand break in peripheral blood leukocyte of breast cancer patient .
 the alkaline comet assay detect mostly ssb but also dsb that be easily repair in patient without defect in dna-repairing mechanism and do not pose a major threat to genomic integrity .
 neutral comet assay detect mostly dna double-strand break .
 dsb be an important direct consequence of treat cell with ionize radiation .
 a variety of evidence point toward dsb be the key damage type link to radiation-induced lethality .
 in particular the link between dsb and chromosome breakage which in turn closely correlate with cell death in some cell type be strongly supportive of this concept .
 use alkaline and neutral comet assay the result show that the patient have high baseline value than control .
 result be also in line with the finding of who use both alkaline and neutral version of comet assay to measure baseline dna damage in untreated sporadic breast cancer patient .
 other author also observe high baseline value in breast cancer patient under the alkaline condition of comet assay .
 this find be also in agreement with other study use chromosomal aberration or micronucleus test as the study endpoint .
 other study have also report high level of baseline dna damage in blood and lymphocyte of cancer case than in benign control .
 in contrast to the above finding use the alkaline comet assay some author find the background dna damage in the peripheral blood lymphocyte from breast cancer patient to be similar to that in control individual .
 consistent with this datum non-irradiated lymphocyte from patient with multiple tumor lung cancer and breast cancer have also be report to exhibit the same range of dna damage as control cell .
 persistent basal dna damage may reflect high exposure to carcinogen and deficient dna repair .
 after irradiation in vitro both version of the comet assay do not reveal any difference among the group in term of induce dd and net induce dd level of dna damage although there be a trend toward an increase induce dna damage level dd in the cell from cancer patient but this fail to reach statistical significance 1a and b which may be in part due to the strong inter-individual variability .
 some author find similar induction of dna damage in the peripheral blood mononuclear cell from breast cancer patient and control individual .
 result be also in line with the finding of that the alkaline comet assay have not reveal any difference between the in vitro-irradiated cryopreserved lymphocyte from 113 breast cancer patient and those from a control subject .
 similarly no difference have be reveal by the comet assay between cell from control subject and patient with brca mutation after irradiation with 2 gy in vitro .
 in contrast to result increase radiation- and doxorubicin-induced dna damage level have be observe in the blood lymphocyte from breast cancer patient .
 the range of value obtain for healthy control be use to set the cut point to determine the range of normal radiation reaction see section 3 .
 use this cut point the case with mark dna damage be identify clearly .
 both alkaline and neutral version of the comet assay show that the number of breast cancer patient who exhibit result lie outside the percentile of the control be not much than healthy individual regard net induce dna damage 3 29 in alkaline and 1 28 in neutral for breast cancer patient and 3 32 in alkaline and 3 35 in neutral for control .
 result be in agreement with other report study .
 on the other hand result disagree with those of and who have find increase level of both basal and radiation-induced dna damage in cell from breast cancer patient as compare to healthy control .
 the reason for the discrepancy between the finding of this study and ours be not understand but might reside in the patient and control cohort cancer stage treatment prior to blood sampling arbitrary determine cut-off value experimental protocol as well as in interlaboratory variability .
 in study we select the range of value obtain for healthy control as the cut-off point .
 other researcher use other cytogenetic end point preferred to choose mean sd of control as cut-off point .
 colleu-durel et use a cut-off point compute by the receiver operating characteristic roc analysis corresponding with the good accuracy of the test minimal false-negative and false positive result .
 larger study be necessary to show which parameter of control be reasonable for the identification of radiation-sensitive subject .
 about the radio-induced damage the dose response curve for dna migration obtain just after irradiation show an increase in dna damage as a function of radiation dose .
 statistical analysis show no difference between group .
 in this context we conclude that both group have an analogous response when analyzed immediately after exposure .
 other researcher report the dose response of cell from unselected bc patient be similar to that of control group use micronucleus assay and comet assay .
 choice of sampling time follow irradiation to study repair capacity of normal and cell obtain from cancer patient be based on previous study .
 in much of this study an incubation time of 3 h or much and mainly 24 h be use to study the residual dna damage .
 use peripheral blood cell from woman carry a brca1 or brca2 mutation do not find any difference for residual dna damage between control and cell carry brca mutation during the first min with min sampling interval .
 therefore in line with other study incubation time of 1 3 and 24 h be select to study repair of dna damage .
 use both version of comet assay the quantitative estimation of repair capacity in blood lymphocyte show that much of the radiation-induced damage in the healthy group be repair within 3 h whereas breast cancer patient reveal about .
 this datum show that the breast cancer donor analyzed in this study have deficient radio-induced damage repair .
 difference in the residual break among the breast cancer patient and control at 3 and 24 h after irradiation be observe under both alkaline and neutral condition of the comet assay .
 result be in line with the finding of other researcher who describe the difference between residual dna damage at different interval post irradiation among breast cancer patient and healthy control use alkaline comet assay .
 however in contrast to result there be other study which do not report any difference between residual dna damage of breast cancer patient and control .
 although some report claim that the sensitivity of fibroblast measure either by colony assay or by dsb rejoin capacity be not major parameter determine the extent of acute reaction after radiotherapy of breast cancer patient there be other report show impair dna repair be involve in the development of late irradiation effect .
 it be suggest that individual exhibit severely reduce dna repair capacity should be follow for the development of late clinical symptom .
 slower repair may be link to an increase susceptibility to cancer or be influence by change in the characteristic of lymphocyte population during tumor development .
 the comet assay under the alkaline condition detect ssb dsb and alkali-labile damage .
 the ssb at 24 h after irradiation be almost rejoin .
 it be consider that the dna damage detect by the neutral condition at 24 h after irradiation be ascribed to the residual dsb .
 there be several report in the literature indicate that radiation-induced dna double-strand break and or the rate of rejoin can be use as measure of intrinsic radiosensitivity of tumor cell .
 in general 1 gy produce ssb per cell and dsb be little than of the total dna damage induce immediately after irradiation .
 therefore the comet assay under the neutral condition be much sensitive for the detection of about dsb per gy .
 the process of dna break rejoin contain a fast component and a slow component .
 while the induce ssb be rejoin with a half-life of several minute in many cell line the dsb be rejoin with a half-life of min for the fast component and 1 2 h for the slow component after irradiation .
 it be suggest that the remain damage measure after 3 h or much be an excellent index of the restoration ability of dna damage .
 it have be show that the rejoin of radiation-induced dsb be leveled off between 2 and 4 h in mammalian cell line and that the number of residual dsb do not change between 4 and h use the neutral filter elution .
 however by use pfge the number of dsb induce by radiation be show to decrease slightly between 4 and 24 h after irradiation .
 in experimental result the dna damage under the alkaline condition decrease slightly for 3 24 h after irradiation in breast cancer patient and decline to the control value at 24 h after 8 gy irradiation .
 under the neutral condition while the healthy donor present a considerable reduction of damage after 3 h the patient have a high residual damage even 24 h after exposure .
 even if the dsb of the complex type be rejoin it be consider that the misrejoining of dsb happen in the slow component of dna repair .
 in conclusion we find no difference in the initial dna damage between breast cancer patient and healthy control by use the comet assay under both alkaline and neutral condition but find difference in the residual dna damage under alkaline and neutral condition .
 therefore it be suggest that the amount of residual dna damage after irradiation be use as a putative predictor of cancer predisposition and cellular radiosensitivity .
 acknowledgement .
 this work be support by the research department of the tarbiat modares university .
 the author wish to express thank to personnel 's of imam khomeini general hospital for help in sample collection all patient and healthy individual for voluntary contribution and blood donation samiei for help and advice and m .
 tizmaghz for irradiation of sample .
 numerous clinical and basic study indicate that high level of fas be present in variety of human cancer and be associate with poor prognosis .
 it have be demonstrate that inhibition of fas with synthetic inhibitor or sirna be selectively cytotoxic to human cancer cell and lead to a significant anti-tumor effect in various cancer xenograft .
 furthermore high level of fas have be find in various cancer precursor lesion such as colon stomach esophagus oral cavity prostate and breast suggest that activation of fatty acid synthesis be require for carcinogenesis .
 collectively overxpression of fas occur in a wide variety of human precancerous and cancerous lesion suggest that fas be a potential drug target for chemoprevention or chemotherapy .
 her2 have be show to regulate fas expression through pi3k akt signal transduction pathway reveal a molecular connection between fas and her2 in human breast cancer cell .
 her2 alternatively know as neu or erbb2 a member of the egfr family of transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinase be overexpressed in about of breast cancer .
 her2 overexpression have be show to be correlated with poor prognosis enhance metastatic potential and increase chemoresistance of human cancer .
 notably inhibition of fas preferentially induce apoptosis of her2-overexpressing cancer cell and delay tumor progression in neu-n transgenic mouse suggest that upregulation of fas expression might play a role in her2-mediated cell survival and tumorigenesis .
 taken together targeting fas might be a novel approach to treat or prevent her2-overexpressing breast cancer .
 in recent year there have be a global trend toward the use of natural substance present in fruit vegetable and herb as antioxidant and anti-cancer agent .
 chemically plant steroid of the spirosolane series such as solasodine and tomatidine occur in much plant tissue where they be think to play a protective role as detergent of certain insect .
 previous study have show that solasodine be effective in the treatment of skin cancer and tomatidine may benefit cancer chemotherapy by inhibit multi-drug resistance in human cancer cell .
 in addition diosgenin a member of steroidal sapogenin find in several plant include solanum and dioscorea species have gain in importance recently .
 diosgenin have be show to have not only favorable effect on lipid metabolism but also anti-tumor effect on cancer cell .
 although this datum suggest that diosgenin possess strong anti-neoplastic activity effect against her2-overexpressing cancer cell be seldom mention .
 based on the fact that fas expression play an important role in the survival and tumorigenesis in her2-overexpressing breast cancer and that plant steroid have favorable effect on both lipid metabolism and anti-cancer it promote us to investigate whether the plant steroid diminish fas expression in her2-overexpressing breast cancer .
 examining the structurally relate plant steroid reveal that diosgenin be much effective suppression of fas expression in her2-overexpressing breast cancer cell .
 diosgenin preferentially inhibit proliferation and induce apoptosis in her2-overexpressing cancer cell .
 furthermore we show that the modulate akt mtor and jnk phosphorylation be potentially require for diosgenin-induced fas suppression .
 finally diosgenin specifically sensitize paclitaxel-induced cytotoxicity in her2-overexpressing cancer cell .
 this result indicate that diosgenin down-regulate fas expression and induce apoptosis in her2-overexpressing cancer cell through modulate akt mtor and jnk phosphorylation and far suggest that diosgenin have therapeutic implication in her2-overexpressing cancer cell .
 material and .
 chemical .
 diosgenin solasodine and tomatidine rapamycin g418 c75 palmitic acid fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin bsa and mtt be purchase from sigma chemical louis mo usa .
 and be purchase from calbiochem san diego usa .
 antibody for fas be purchase from bd bioscience lo angeles .
 antibody for akt mtor p44 42 mapk p38 mapk jnk1 phospho-mtor ser2448 phospho-akt ser-473 phospho-p44 p42 mapk phosphor-p38 mapk tyr182 and phosphor-jnk thr183 tyr185 be purchase from cell signaling technology beverly ma .
 -actin antibody be from abcam cambridge ma .
 anti-mouse and anti-rabbit antibody conjugate to horseradish peroxidase be obtain from santa cruz biotechnology santa cruz .
 all other reagent and chemical be purchase from sigma and be of an analytical grade .
 full-size image 63k high-quality image 536k full-size image 18k high-quality image 142k effect of diosgenin solasodine and tomatidine on the fas expression and proliferation in breast cancer a chemical structure of diosgenin solasodine and b au565 cell be incubate with dmso con or td tomatidine dg diosgenin sd solasodine m at 37 c for 24 h .
 immunoblotting be use to measure protein level of fas and c cell viability be determine by mtt assay after continuous exposure to different concentration of diosgenin solasodine and tomatidine at 37 c for 24 h .
 the number of viable cell after treatment be express as a percentage of the vehicle-only control .
 data be mean of three independent experiment .
 bar represent the d left column immunoblotting be use to measure her2 fas and -actin in and cell .
 fas expression be upregulated in cell .
 right column and cell be treat with various concentration of diosgenin at 37 c for 48 h and cell viability be determine by mtt assay .
 the number of viable cell after treatment be express as a percentage of the vehicle-only control .
 data be mean of three independent experiment .
 bar represent the p .
 view within article .
 cell culture .
 her2-overexpressing human cancer cell line au565 breast adenocarcinoma and cell line with low her2 expression include mcf-7 breast adenocarcinoma and which be derived from a normal human breast tissue transform by large t antigen be obtain from american type culture collection manassas va .
 all of the cell be grow in dmem f12 supplement with fetal calf serum hyclone laboratory logan ut and penicillin streptomycin .
 the and transfectant which be kindly provide by mien-chie hung the university of texas anderson cancer center houston tx be cultured as describe before .
 this cell be grow at 37 c in a humidify atmosphere of co2 .
 for culturing cell in the presence of palmitate-bovine serum albumin complex palmitate sigma be first complexed to fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin as describe .
 briefly four volume of a bovine serum albumin solution in nacl be add to 1 volume of 5 mm palmitate in ethanol and incubate at 37 c for 1 h to obtain a 1 mm stock solution of bovine serum albumin-complexed palmitate .
 western blot analysis .
 cell be seed onto a mm tissue culture dish contain fcs dmem f12 and cultured for 24 h .
 then cell be incubate in fcs dmem f12 treat with various agent as indicate in figure legend .
 after treatment cell be place on ice wash with cold pbs and lysed in lysis buffer .
 western blot be do as describe previously .
 the intensity of the band be scan and quantify with nih image software .
 cell proliferation assay and flow cytometry .
 as describe previously the effect of diosgenin solasodine tomatidine and taxol on cell proliferation be examine by mtt method and the cell cycle analysis of the sub-g1 peak detection of the apoptotic effect be determine by flow cytometry use propidium-iodide staining .
 statistical analysis .
 all value be express as mean each value be the mean of at least three separate experiment in each group .
 student 's t-test be use for statistical comparison .
 indicates the value be significantly different from the p .
 .
 effect of diosgenin solasodine and tomatidine on the expression of fas in her2-overexpressing breast cancer cell .
 diosgenin solasodine and tomatidine be naturally occur plant steroid and have be show to have anti-neoplastic activity .
 to investigate the possible relationship between the chemical structure and the biological activity we determine inhibitory activity on the protein level of fas in her2-overexpressing breast cancer cell line .
 we treat separately the her2-overexpressing human breast cancer au565 cell with m of this compound at 37 c for 24 h and the level of fas protein be analyzed .
 as show in 1b among the test compound diosgenin be the much effective compound in suppress fas expression .
 diosgenin preferentially inhibit the proliferation of her2-overexpressing breast cancer cell .
 to assess the biological activity of diosgenin solasodine and tomatidine in term of cell proliferation mcf-7 and au565 cell be treat with this plant steroid at different concentration for 24 h .
 the growth inhibition of the test cell line be in a dose-dependent manner but to various extent .
 au565 cell that overexpress her2 show high susceptibility to diosgenin than do or mcf-7 cell result in low cell viability .
 both and au565 cell be sensitive to solasodine .
 tomatidine in contrast show high cytotoxicity against cell .
 to avoid the genetic complexity associate with establish cancer cell line we compare the sensitivity of cell which be establish by transfecting the neomycin resistance gene alone into mda-mb-435 cell with that of isogenic her2-transfected mda-mb-435 .
 consistent with expectation cell be much sensitive to diosgenin than be cell .
 overall this result suggest that diosgenin preferentially suppress the growth of her2-overexpressing cancer cell line .
 diosgenin preferentially promote apoptotic cell death in her2-overexpressing breast cancer cell .
 we next examine whether the loss of cell viability be due to an increase in apoptotic cell death .
 the percentage of apoptotic cell in the sub-g1 peak of diosgenin-treated cell be measure by flow cytometry .
 as show in 2 compare with vehicle-treated control diosgenin dramatically increase the amount of apoptotic cell sub-g1 cell in the her2-overexpressing cancer cell line .
 in contrast in her2 low-expressing cell line the level of apoptotic cell be similar after either vehicle or diosgenin treatment .
 in addition we also find that diosgenin preferentially induce apoptosis in cell when compare with cell p .
 therefore diosgenin can preferentially induce apoptosis in her2-overexpressing cancer cell line .
 full-size image 11k high-quality image 75k diosgenin induce apoptosis in her2-overexpressing cancer cell line but not in her2 low-expressing cancer cell line .
 cell be treat with vehicle or diosgenin for 24 h mcf-7 and au565 or 48 h and then harvest and subject to sub-g1 dna content analysis .
 the level of apoptosis induce by vehicle be set at 1 and the level of apoptosis induce by diosgenin be express relative to this value .
 columns average of three independent experiment bar represent the p .
 view within article .
 palmitate suppress diosgenin-induced cytotoxicity in her2-overexpressing cancer cell .
 to confirm that the cell cytotoxicity induce by diosgenin be relate to fas inhibition au565 cell be expose for 24 h to diosgenin in the presence of 75 m palmitate .
 palmitate markedly reduce the cytotoxic effect of diosgenin as the percentage of viable cell be significantly decrease after the addition of exogenous palmitate .
 poly adp-ribose polymerase parp cleave by caspase during apoptosis to produce mr fragment be measure as a marker of apoptosis by immunoblotting .
 diosgenin induce corresponding increase in the parp cleavage and addition of exogenous palmitate reduce the cleavage .
 to test whether that the suppression of fas really critical for diosgenin 's ability to inhibit proliferation in her2-overexpressing cancer cell line cell be treat with c75 a synthetic fas inhibitor at different concentration for 24 h .
 the growth inhibition of the cell be in a dose-dependent manner .
 in contrast the suppression of fas mimic the diosgenin 's effect .
 full-size image 28k high-quality image 224k exogenous palmitate suppress diosgenin-induced cancer cell a au565 cell be expose to vehicle control or to diosgenin m in the presence or absence of 75 m palmitate .
 after 24 h cell viability be determine by mtt assay .
 bar represent the p b au565 cell be expose to vehicle control or to diosgenin m in the presence or absence of 75 m palmitate .
 after 24 h parp cleavage be assess by western blot c cell viability be determine by mtt assay after continuous exposure to different concentration of c75 a synthetic fas inhibitor at 37 c for 24 h .
 the number of viable cell after treatment be express as a percentage of the vehicle-only control .
 data be mean of three independent experiment .
 bar represent the .
 view within article .
 diosgenin downregulate phospho-akt and phospho-mtor and upregulate phospho-jnk level in her2-overexpressing breast cancer cell .
 akt erk and jnk have be show to be involve in fas regulation in various cell type .
 to examine whether the activity of akt and mapk be affect by diosgenin we analyzed the phosphorylation of akt and mapk in au565 cell after treatment with diosgenin 5 m for 24 h .
 immunoblot analysis with anti-phospho-specific antibody be then perform .
 as show in 4a diosgenin inhibit the phosphorylation of akt and downstream mtor .
 in contrast diosgenin enhance jnk phosphorylation .
 diosgenin do not affect p38 and erk phosphorylation .
 full-size image 54k high-quality image 456k a effect of diosgenin on the akt mtor and map kinase phosphorylation in her2-overexpressing breast cancer cell .
 au565 cell be treat with the pi3k inhibitor ly 25 m or mek1 inhibitor pd m or diosgenin 5 and m at 37 c for 24 h .
 level of phosphorylated akt mtor erk1 2 p38 mapk and jnk1 2 be analyzed by immunoblotting with phopho-akt ser-473 phopho- mtor ser-2448 phopho-p44 42 mapk phopho-p38 mapk tyr182 and phopho-jnk thr183 tyr185 antibody .
 immunoblotting with -actin antibody demonstrate equivalent protein in each b au565 cell be incubate with pi3k inhibitor 25 m jnk inhibitor 25 m and mtor inhibitor rapamycin nm in the presence or absence of diosgenin m at 37 c for 24 h .
 cell be harvest and immunoblotting be use to measure level of fas protein and c au565 cell be incubate with jnk inhibitor 25 m in the presence or absence of diosgenin m at 37 c for 24 h .
 cell be harvest and parp cleavage be assess by western blot analysis .
 view within article .
 effect of kinase inhibitor on the fas expression in her2-overexpressing breast cancer cell .
 in far study we examine whether inhibition of fas expression in au565 by diosgenin be mediate through modulation of akt mtor and jnk phosphorylation .
 as show in 4b treat the cell with the inhibitor of pi3k and mtor rapamycin significantly reduce fas protein expression .
 treatment with jnk inhibitor render diosgenin unable to suppress fas expression and also inhibit diosgenin 's ability to induce apoptosis .
 taken together it suggest that diosgenin inhibit fas expression by repress the phosphorylation of akt and mtor and activate jnk phosphorylation in au565 cell .
 diosgenin can enhance the chemosensitivity of her2-overexpressing breast cancer cell .
 previous study have show that her2 overexpression can confer resistance to chemotherapeutic agent in breast cancer cell and that inhibition of fas can sensitize her2-overexpressing cancer cell to paclitaxel .
 because diosgenin can inhibit fas expression in her2-overexpressing cancer cell we thus evaluate whether diosgenin sensitize her2-overexpressing cancer cell to the chemotherapeutic agent paclitaxel .
 to determine the effect of diosgenin on paclitaxel-induced cytotoxicity we treat and cell with increase concentration of paclitaxel 5 nm in the absence or presence of m diosgenin .
 after treatment for 48 h cell viability be measure use a mtt assay .
 as show in 5a diosgenin enhance paclitaxel-induced cytotoxicity in cell but not in cell .
 taken together the above datum show that diosgenin can specifically enhance the cytotoxicity induce by paclitaxel in her2-overexpressing cancer cell but not in her2 low express cancer cell .
 full-size image 32k high-quality image 248k diosgenin enhance paclitaxel-induced growth inhibition in her2-overexpressing cancer cell .
 a and b cell be treat for 48 h with either vehicle or m diosgenin in combination with the indicate concentration of paclitaxel .
 lo of cell viability be measure use the mtt assay .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 the practice of dietary agent for treat the disease be well know from ancient time .
 recently some light have be focused on steroid like compound present in number of dietary agent .
 in this study we demonstrate that among the test naturally occur steroid diosgenin show the much effective inhibition of fas expression in her2-overexpressing cancer cell .
 further analysis indicate that diosgenin preferentially inhibit the proliferation of her2-overexpressing cancer cell .
 in addition diosgenin specifically sensitize her2-overexpressing cancer cell to paclitaxel-induced cytotoxicity .
 interestingly both diosgenin and solasodine be effective inhibition of proliferation in au565 cell while tomatidine be not suggest the presence or absence of the unsaturation at 5 may lead to major modification in biological activity in her2-overexpressing cell .
 this result will provide new information for the study of this functional group in the future .
 it have be hypothesized that increase exposure to exogenous estrogen from dietary phytoestrogen may reduce breast cancer risk .
 the main class be isoflavone coumestans lignan and sterols .
 genistein for example have be show to inhibit the growth of a wide range of both hormone-dependent and hormone-independent cancer cell .
 diosgenin an important compound in the pharmaceutical industry as a natural source of steroidal hormone have gain attention recently .
 study suggest that it can be absorb through gut and have anti-tumor activity .
 the anti-tumor effect of diosgenin have be demonstrate to be mediate through disruption of ca2t homeostasis inhibition of nf-b activation of p53 and modulation of caspase-3 activity .
 we demonstrate here for the first time that fatty acid synthesis be require for diosgenin-induced cytotoxicity in her2-overexpressing cancer cell .
 it have be well-documented that her2-overexpressing cancer cell overexpress fas and thus be sensitive to treatment that target fas .
 the concept of oncogene addiction suggest that cancer cell be often physiologically dependent on the continue activity of specific activate or overexpressed oncogene for maintenance of malignant phenotype which provide an achilles heel for tumor that can be exploit in cancer therapy .
 because fas be overexpressed in her2-overexpressing cancer cell it be reasonable to assume that diosgenin can suppress the survival of her2-overexpressing cancer cell .
 activation of akt signaling have be demonstrate to upregulate the expression of fas in various cell type include breast prostate and ovarian cancer cell .
 in this study the phosphorylation of akt be suppress diosgenin in au565 cell that overexpress her2 .
 furthermore the expression of fas be also inhibit by the pi3k inhibitor .
 her2 have be show to regulate fas expression through akt-dependent mechanism .
 give that akt can be either activate by pi3k or negatively regulate by pten investigation into the possible involvement of pi3k or pten in diosgenin-induced down-regulation of akt be currently in progress .
 it be noteworthy that result illustrate that mtor signaling play an important role in the upregulation of fas in her2-overexpressing cancer cell which be consistent with the a recent report by .
 there be a clear association between mtor activation and her2 overexpression in breast cancer and activation of this signaling pathway have be associate with poor prognosis .
 many report have suggest that the mtor pathway play an important role in the susceptibility of chemopreventive or chemotherapeutic agent to kill cancer cell .
 in accordance with this concept diosgenin sensitize paclitaxel-induced cytotoxicity in her2-overexpressing cancer cell .
 the c-jun n-terminal kinase jnk pathway represent one sub-group of map kinase that be activate by cytokine and exposure to environmental stress .
 jnk have be report to have a role in the induction of apoptosis but have also be implicate in enhance cell survival and proliferation .
 interestingly tamoxifen-induced apoptosis be find to be relate to the activation of the jnk phosphorylation and increase caspase 3 activity support a role for jnk in facilitate tamoxifen-induced apoptosis .
 result here suggest that jnk may play a role in diosgenin-induced fas suppression and apoptosis 4b and datum not show .
 in contrast suppress fas expression by inhibit jnk signaling have also be demonstrate by and other laboratory .
 taken together alteration of jnk activity may lead to change of fas level and cell survival .
 the role of jnk in the regulation of fas expression and apoptosis be still controversial and merit far investigation .
 in conclusion elevate fas expression be associate with her2 overexpression which be regard as a poor prognostic marker in breast cancer cell .
 we provide experimental evidence here for the first time to demonstrate that diosgenin suppress fas expression and modulate akt mtor and jnk phosphorylation in her2-overexpressing cancer cell .
 this result highlight the potential of use diosgenin as a unique chemotherapeutic modulator in the prevention or treatment of her2-overexpressing cancer .
 acknowledgement .
 the author would like to thank mien-chie hung for generous provide cancer cell line and .
 this study be support by the national science council nsc and .
 multiple randomized control trial establish the importance of adjuvant breast radiotherapy rt after conservative surgery for dcis 3 or ibc 4 .
 conventional breast rt 2 and 5 be deliver to the whole ipsilateral breast through two tangential field with the use of megavoltage photon usually with wedge to improve dose homogeneity 6 .
 conventional breast rt result in a moderate degree of acute skin toxicity in approximately one third to one half of patient .
 this usually be limited to brisk erythema or patchy moist desquamation of the breast whereas much severe acute toxicity be exceedingly uncommon 7 and 8 .
 late toxicity may include telangiectasias fat necrosis lymphedema and skin fibrosis but moderate or ill grade late toxicity be uncommon 9 .
 increased frequency of both acute and late skin effect be associate with increase breast dose inhomogeneity and resultant hot spot and 11 .
 with conventional breast rt a significant portion of the breast tissue may receive of the prescription dose with potential hot spot of up to 11 and 12 .
 intensity-modulated rt imrt be explore as a technique to improve breast dose homogeneity by decrease hot spot and dose to normal tissue .
 imrt be a treatment technique drive by computer-optimized planning that allow modulation of beam intensity within treatment field to obtain highly conformal dose delivery .
 breast imrt be an area of active research and in recent year several publication show feasibility dosimetric superiority to conventional plan 13 14 and 15 and decrease acute side effect with breast imrt compare with conventional rt crt 16 17 and 18 with the potential for decrease late complication 19 and 21 .
 however publish long-term clinical outcome for patient treat with breast imrt have be sparse .
 at the emory clinic atlanta ga we begin use imrt in adjuvant breast rt in 1999 use a forward plan treatment with two tangential field with a combination of dynamic multileaf collimator dmlc and enhance dynamic wedge edws .
 in we change to a multibeam inverse plan imrt technique use a simultaneous integrate boost to the resection cavity .
 we report clinical outcome of patient treat with initial imrt technique use from 1999 and a comparison cohort of patient treat during the same period use crt with edws .
 method and material patient evaluation .
 treatment record of the emory clinic be evaluate to identify patient with stage iii breast cancer receive adjuvant breast rt after conservative surgery between january 1999 and december .
 men patient with distant metastatic disease at presentation and those treat after mastectomy be not include .
 institutional review board approval be obtain for this retrospective analysis .
 patient in the crt cohort be treat at the same institution during the same period both before and during the transition to breast imrt .
 breast imrt be adopt in mid-1999 by one physician and by all physician by the end of as imrt treatment planning capacity increase .
 after be adopt by a physician breast imrt become the standard treatment for all patient .
 in the crt cohort be treat before the first institutional use of breast imrt whereas receive crt after at the discretion of the attend radiation oncologist based on non patient-related factor include treatment planning capacity .
 all patient undergo standard staging evaluation after diagnosis .
 surgical and pathological report be review to verify stage which be standardized to the sixth edition of the american joint committee on cancer 22 .
 patient have routinely schedule multidisciplinary follow-up with interval history and physical examination and breast imaging accord to nationally recognize schedule 1 and 2 .
 surgery .
 patient undergo conservative surgery accord to the standard practice of the surgical oncologist .
 re-excision for close or positive margin be perform in accordance with patient and surgeon preference .
 margin be categorize as positive if the pathology report note the presence of tumor cell at the ink margin of the specimen close if tumor cell be present within cm of the ink margin and negative if tumor cell be at least cm from the ink margin .
 chemotherapy .
 patient at sufficient risk of distant metastasis be offer adjuvant chemotherapy generally doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide ac in accordance with consensus guideline at the time 23 and 24 .
 preoperative chemotherapy generally be offer to facilitate breast conservation in patient with tumor of a size or in a location that make breast-conserving surgery unlikely without a decrease in tumor size .
 for patient with clinically uninvolved lymph node sentinel lymph node biopsy and or axillary nodal dissection generally be perform before initiation of neoadjuvant chemotherapy .
 radiation .
 radiation therapy typically be initiate 4 week after completion of all surgery and chemotherapy .
 a compute tomography ct scan be obtain for treatment planning in all patient with cm slice from the midneck to several centimeters caudal to the breast .
 patient undergo scanning in the supine position with the ipsilateral arm abduct use a t stabilization bar .
 for larger breast woman a slant board generally be use at the discretion of the attend radiation oncologist .
 at the time of simulation a radiopaque wire be place to mark the tangential field border .
 the superior and inferior field border be place 2 cm beyond clinically palpable breast tissue .
 the medial border be set in the midline of the sternum and the lateral border along the mid-axillary line .
 radiopaque wire also be use to cover the surgical scar to assist in plan the boost .
 crt .
 for crt medial and lateral tangential field be create to encompass the entire breast follow standard technique .
 field collimation be adjust to follow the slope of the chest wall .
 gantry angle be adjust to make the deep tangential border coplanar to eliminate divergence into the lung .
 the deep edge of the tangential beam pass through the medial and lateral border set at simulation and the cranial and caudal tangent field border of the tangent be set to the cranial and caudal wire marker .
 additional adjustment in collimator and gantry rotation be make as necessary to limit the volume of lung in the field .
 the anterior border of the tangent give 2 cm of flash beyond the breast .
 when a supraclavicular field be prescribe the match line be set at the level of the caudal edge of the sternoclavicular junction .
 adjustment in the couch position for the tangential field be make and multileaf collimator be use to create superior tangential block at the match line to prevent divergence of the tangent into the supraclavicular field .
 to treat the supraclavicular field an anterior half-beam block field be set at the match line and angle this field be treat with 6-mv photon to a dose of 45 gy in 2-gy fraction typically prescribe to a depth of 3 4 cm .
 posterior axillary field be rarely use reserve for node-positive patient with an incomplete axillary dissection or gross extranodal disease .
 the ipsilateral internal mammary node be not electively treat .
 cadplan treatment planning software varian medical system palo alto be use to plan a dose of 44 gy to the tangential field in standard fractionation of 2-gy fraction use photon of 6 mv 18 mv or mixed-beam energy .
 edws typically with a wedge angle of 15 or be use for every patient to optimize dose homogeneity .
 the edws be use in both the medial and lateral tangent field for nearly every patient .
 no correction for tissue inhomogeneity be make .
 a boost be use accord to the treat physician 's preference .
 the target for the boost be the surgical cavity with a 2 cm margin define on the simulation ct and correlated with physical examination and location of the surgical scar .
 the boost be deliver with electron of sufficient energy for the isodose line to cover the depth of the cavity define on ct use an appositional technique .
 the boost dose be gy in 2 fraction for a cumulative total dose of 64 gy .
 imrt .
 for patient treat with imrt tangential field identical to those describe for breast crt be use except that the field collimation be rotate to allow for dmlc movement in the longitudinal plane of the patient .
 use cadplan software a forward-planned imrt treatment use a pencil-beam algorithm be develop to account for the irregular breast surface in the plane of the isocenter generate fluence map that be convert to leaf sequence file for delivery by dmlc .
 the software account for contour irregularity in the longitudinal plane .
 in much patient after generation of the imrt plan edws be use with identical tangential field to deliver a portion of the dose without imrt compensation to further improve dose homogeneity .
 the combination of dmlc and edws effectively consider surface contour irregularity in both the anteroposterior edws and craniocaudal dmlc plane .
 as with crt plan no correction for tissue inhomogeneity be make .
 the same dose and fractionation schedule be use for imrt plan as for crt plan .
 the same treatment policy be apply with rare use of a posterior axillary field and no elective treatment of internal mammary node .
 when a supraclavicular field be prescribe the same technique be use as for crt .
 a boost be prescribe accord to the treat physician 's preference in the same manner use for patient treat with conventional tangent .
 initial evaluation of this imrt technique involve qualitative comparison of isodose distribution in multiple axial ct slice compare with the isodose distribution of conventional rt use tangent with edws only .
 because the imrt technique be judge superior to crt only one plan later be run on the majority of patient treat with imrt .
 assessment of toxicity .
 during treatment acute toxicity be assess by the physician at on-treatment check at least weekly .
 documentation of acute radiation toxicity be the focus of this weekly on-treatment note the final treatment summary and the first follow-up visit which occur 1 month after completion of treatment .
 all this note be review for description of patient-reported pain and physical examination finding include skin erythema dry or moist desquamation and breast edema .
 acute toxicity be retrospectively grade accord to radiation therapy oncology group rtog criterion based on the bad toxicity describe in the interval from start of treatment to 4 week after completion 25 .
 individual scoring of such toxicity component as erythema desquamation and edema be not perform .
 separate note be make of any occurrence of breast cellulitis for which antibiotic therapy be prescribe .
 table .
 rtog and ctc grade criterion for acute radiation dermatitis .
 rtog acute radiation morbidity criterion for skin 25 nci ctc version 2 acute radiation dermatitis criterion 29 gradedescriptiongradedescription change over 1follicular faint or dull erythema epilation dry desquamation decrease sweating1faint erythema or dry desquamation 2tender or bright erythema patchy moist desquamation moderate edema2moderate to brisk erythema or a patchy moist desquamation mostly confine to skin fold and crease moderate edema 3confluent moist desquamation other than skin fold pit edema3confluent moist desquamation cm diameter and not confine to skin fold pit edema 4ulceration hemorrhage or necrosis4skin necrosis or ulceration of full thickness dermis may include bleed not induce by minor trauma or abrasion 5death5death .
 full-size table .
 abbreviation rtog radiation therapy oncology group nci ctc national cancer institute common toxicity criteria .
 view within article .
 patient chart also be review for report late toxicity potentially relate to rt include radiation pneumonitis clinically appreciable fat necrosis lymphedema and the development of a second malignancy .
 statistical analysis .
 follow-up time be calculate from the onset of definitive therapy either the date of first definitive surgery or the start date of neoadjuvant chemotherapy for those treat with preoperative chemotherapy .
 only the site of first failure be consider for analysis use one of the follow category ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence ibtr contralateral breast tumor recurrence cbtr or distant metastasis dm .
 overall survival os disease-specific survival dss and freedom from ibtr cbtr and dm be calculate by use the kaplan-meier method 26 .
 comparison between treatment group be make use the log-rank test .
 estimate be report with standard error se .
 patient with synchronous bilateral breast cancer be not score as have cbtr or include in the number at risk of cbtr .
 similarly for patient with metachronous bilateral breast cancer the late breast cancer be score as cbtr but not include in the number at risk of subsequent cbtr .
 patient with synchronous or metachronous bilateral breast cancer be include only once in analysis of os dss freedom from dm and second malignancy .
 a two-tailed fisher 's exact test or chi-square test be use for comparison of categorical variable between treatment group and for univariate analysis of variable associate with ibtr and dm whereas the mann-whitney u test be use to test for difference between continuous variable .
 a value of p be consider statistically significant .
 statistical analysis be perform use stata version software statacorp college park tx .
 result patient characteristic .
 from 1999 to a total of 245 breast be treat in patient 121 with imrt and 124 with crt .
 included in analysis be 4 patient with synchronous and 1 patient with metachronous bilateral breast cancer .
 patient characteristic be list in table during this period evaluation of estrogen and progesterone receptor status be perform infrequently for patient with dcis and hormonal receptor status be know in only 3 of 46 patient with dcis .
 in patient with dcis those treat use crt much often receive adjuvant hormonal therapy ht than those treat with imrt p .
 otherwise patient characteristic be well balanced between group .
 table .
 patient characteristic .
 imrtcrt patient with dcis n 34 n 112 p age y median5455 range23 8424 91 premenopause18 21 28 25 postmenopause69 79 84 75 breast right42 48 45 left45 52 62 55 stage i54 62 69 62 ii31 36 36 32 iii2 2 7 6 grade 132 37 37 33 34 46 41 23 29 26 unknown5 6 estrogen receptor positive68 78 88 78 1 negative17 22 unknown2 2 2 2 progesterone receptor positive52 59 53 negative33 38 45 unknown2 2 3 3 her2 positive31 36 44 39 negative49 56 55 49 unknown7 8 13 12 lymphovascular invasion positive14 16 23 21 negative62 71 76 68 unknown11 13 13 12 margin 92 82 close13 15 16 14 positive3 3 1 1 unknown1 1 3 3 plns 63 81 72 1 322 25 16 14 1 7 6 no evaluation9 8 7 ene5 23 22 6 23 26 1 na 11 15 13 pcr rate4 3 15 adj ctx25 29 43 38 adj ht yes56 64 71 no26 27 unknown5 16 2 2 breast dose gy range37 6844 boost yes79 91 94 no8 9 6 5 1 1 total dose gy range37 6845 age y range33 8245 85 29 4 33 1 postmenopause24 71 8 67 breast right16 47 6 1 left18 53 6 tumor size cm grade 15 15 1 8 214 41 3 25 315 44 8 67 necrosis present24 71 83 margin negative28 82 8 67 close4 12 4 33 positive2 6 adj ht yes12 35 8 67 no21 62 1 8 unknown1 3 3 25 breast dose gy range6 5245 boost yes29 85 9 75 no5 15 3 25 total dose gy range6 .
 full-size table .
 abbreviation imrt intensity-modulated radiotherapy crt conventional radiotherapy ibc invasive breast cancer dcis ductal carcinoma in situ her2 her2 neu gene amplification or protein overexpression plns number of pathologically involve lymph node no evaluation no pathologic lymph node evaluation ene extranodal extension in involve lymph node na ctx neoadjuvant chemotherapy pcr rate pathologic complete response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy adj ctx adjuvant chemotherapy adj ht adjuvant hormonal therapy .
 value express as number percent unless note otherwise .
 view within article .
 chemotherapy .
 of 199 patient with ibc receive preoperative and receive adjuvant chemotherapy .
 there be no statistically significant difference in the use of chemotherapy between the crt and imrt patient group .
 in both group the much common adjuvant chemotherapy regimen be four cycle of ac and the second much common regimen be four cycle of ac follow by four cycle of a taxane .
 among patient treat with preoperative chemotherapy four cycle of ac be the much common regimen use in both group .
 radiation therapy .
 median dose to the whole breast be gy and median total dose be gy for both imrt and crt patient group .
 much patient receive a boost to the tumor cavity there be no significant difference in the use of a boost between patient treat with imrt or crt p .
 follow-up .
 median follow-up be year range month for patient treat with imrt and year range 112 month for those treat with crt .
 of patient alive at last follow-up have much than 7 year of follow-up of patient treat with imrt of patient treat with crt .
 fifty-three patient be lose to follow-up represent of patient alive at last follow-up of patient treat with imrt and of patient treat with crt p .
 this patient be censor at last follow-up .
 acute toxicity .
 ninety-six percent of patient have sufficient datum to permit grade of acute toxicity .
 the acute skin toxicity report in patient treat with imrt be grade in grade 1 in and grade 2 in with no case of grade 3 dermatitis .
 for patient treat with crt there be no case of grade dermatitis have grade 1 have grade 2 and have grade 3 dermatitis .
 there be no case of grade 4 or greater acute toxicity in either treatment group .
 use of imrt be associate with a statistically significant decrease in acute skin toxicity rtog grade 2 or 3 compare with crt p .
 breast cellulitis occur in of patient treat with imrt and treat with crt p .
 late toxicity second malignancy .
 radiation pneumonitis develop in of those treat with imrt and of those treat with conventional rt p 1 .
 ipsilateral extremity lymphedema be not see in patient treat with imrt but be describe in after crt p .
 some degree of clinically appreciable fat necrosis be note in of patient treat with crt but not in patient treat with imrt p .
 one patient treat with crt undergo mastectomy for extensive fat necrosis year after rt .
 no instance of rib fracture be note in any patient .
 assessment of posttherapy breast cosmesis be insufficient for grade or comparison between treatment arm .
 the 7 year kaplan-meier rate of second malignancy exclude nonmelanomatous skin cancer be se in patient treat with imrt and in patient treat with crt p .
 survival local and distant failure .
 kaplan-meier curve for patient with ibc be show in se be note throughout the text .
 in patient with ibc 7 year os rate be for the cohort treat with imrt and for the cohort treat with crt p .
 the 7 year dss rate be for patient treat with imrt and for those treat with crt p .
 the 7 year rate of freedom from ibtr be for imrt and for crt p .
 all ipsilateral recurrence be infiltrate cancer .
 at 7 year rate of freedom from cbtr be for imrt and for crt p .
 of the six instance of cbtr five be infiltrate cancer and one be in situ .
 at 7 year rate of freedom from dm be in those treat with imrt and for those treat with crt p .
 full-size image 45k kaplan-meier curve for patient with invasive breast cancer ibc show a freedom from ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence ibtr and b freedom from contralateral breast tumor recurrence cbtr .
 the number of patient remain at risk be report at yearly interval for both treatment group .
 imrt intensity-modulated radiotherapy .
 view within article .
 kaplan-meier curve for patient with dcis be show in for patient with dcis 7 year os rate be for those treat with imrt and for crt p .
 the 7 year rate for freedom from ibtr be for patient treat with imrt and for crt p .
 two of four instance of ibtr be infiltrate cancer .
 at 7 year rate of freedom from cbtr be for imrt and for crt p .
 all contralateral recurrence be infiltrate cancer .
 there be no instance of dm and the dss rate for all patient with dcis be .
 full-size image 44k kaplan-meier curve for patient with ductal carcinoma in situ dcis show a freedom from ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence ibrt and b freedom from contralateral breast tumor recurrence cbrt .
 the number of patient remain at risk be report at yearly interval for both treatment group .
 imrt intensity-modulated radiotherapy .
 view within article .
 univariate analysis .
 univariate analysis of multiple variable be perform for patient with ibc and dcis .
 for patient with ibc variable assess be age stage grade estrogen receptor status progesterone receptor status her2 neu status lymphovascular invasion qualitative margin negative close positive number of positive lymph node menopausal status extranodal extension use of preoperative chemotherapy pathologic tumor response to preoperative chemotherapy use of adjuvant chemotherapy use of adjuvant ht dose to the whole breast boost dose total dose and rtog grade of acute skin toxicity .
 for those with ibc only negative progesterone receptor status p and use of adjuvant chemotherapy p be associate with the development of ibtr whereas only increase number of positive lymph node be associate with the development of dm p .
 in patient with ibc with acute skin toxicity of rtog grade and 1 the kaplan-meier 7 year risk of ibtr be which be not significantly different from the estimate for those with toxicity of rtog grade 2 and 3 p .
 for patient with dcis variable assess be age tumor size presence of necrosis qualitative margin menopausal status use of adjuvant ht breast dose boost dose total dose and rtog grade of acute skin toxicity .
 for patient with dcis only the presence of a close cm or positive margin be associate with great risk of ibtr p .
 the kaplan-meier 7 year risk of ibtr in patient with dcis with acute skin toxicity of rtog grade and 1 be which be not significantly different from the risk of ibtr estimate for those with grade 2 and 3 toxicity p .
 discussion acute toxicity .
 adjuvant breast rt be an establish and efficacious treatment that generally be well tolerate .
 however even moderate acute skin toxicity see with breast rt negatively impact on patient quality of life and provide impetus for improve technique that may decrease toxicity 7 and 27 .
 one randomized trial and two retrospective analysis show the ability of breast imrt to decrease acute skin toxicity compare with crt 16 17 and 18 .
 own experience confirm a significant decrease in acute toxicity of rtog grade 2 or 3 with the use of breast imrt .
 as with many other early breast imrt report 12 13 14 and 21 technique use two tangential field identical to those use for crt therefore the decrease in acute toxicity can be attributed to the use of imrt rather than difference in target definition and beam geometry .
 the mechanism for decrease acute skin toxicity with breast imrt likely be a combination of treatment planning and delivery factor .
 imrt planning use similar tangential beam previously be show by several investigator to improve dose homogeneity and decrease hot spot especially in the inframammary fold 13 14 and 15 whereas imrt treatment delivery especially with dmlc result in a modest decrease in the surface buildup dose 28 .
 limitation in the planning software use during the period of this report preclude rigorous quantitative dosimetric comparison between crt and imrt planning technique .
 previous study evaluate acute toxicity from breast rt use a variety of score system include the rtog criterion use in study and the national cancer institute common toxicity criteria ctc for radiation dermatitis 29 .
 for radiation dermatitis there be little substantive difference between this two score system both list in table limitation of this score system in elucidate clinically meaningful difference in toxicity be discuss by freedman et 17 but continue use facilitate comparison among study .
 we use the rtog criterion for acute skin reaction which in addition to physical examination finding incorporate a component of patient-reported pain score tender erythema as grade this potentially result in much grade 2 event in patient for whom physical examination finding would otherwise be code grade by incorporating pain the rtog criterion arguably well reflect the severity of radiation dermatitis in a single assessment whereas the ctc evaluate pain and skin reaction separately .
 the magnitude of absolute decrease in moderate or badly acute skin toxicity with imrt range from in series to report by harsolia et 18 .
 in consecutive cohort study 79 patient be treat with crt with wedge and 93 patient be treat with imrt .
 use ctc version 2 acute radiation dermatitis of grade 2 or high significantly decrease from with crt to with imrt p .
 the frequency of grade 2 or high toxicity in crt cohort be exceptionally high and may be relate to the use of two-dimensional planning in those patient .
 in series all crt patient undergo ct simulation and three-dimensional treatment planning .
 the decrease in acute toxicity with imrt seen in analysis be close to the absolute decrease in moist desquamation report by other investigator 16 and 17 .
 late toxicity .
 there be no difference in the report occurrence of radiation pneumonitis lymphedema or fat necrosis between treatment arm .
 analysis do not find sufficiently descriptive or consistent assessment of late cosmesis to make a far comparison between treatment arm .
 retrospective toxicity score be a recognize limitation of this study .
 data be available for nearly every patient to permit score of several important category of both acute and late toxicity include radiation dermatitis cellulitis lymphedema pneumonitis and fat necrosis because the presence or absence of this be routinely note in follow-up .
 however documentation often do not consistently describe other possible side effect of treatment include overall cosmesis chronic breast pain hyperpigmentation and fibrosis preclude a confident assessment of the frequency and severity of this effect .
 it be assume that decrease in late toxicity will parallel the decrease in acute toxicity achieve with imrt .
 result from a randomized control trial compare imrt and crt for moderate- to large-breasted woman show a significant decrease in late change in breast appearance assess by use serial photography through 5 year of follow-up .
 change be note in treat with imrt treat with crt p and there be a significant association between the development of late change and increase dose inhomogeneity 19 .
 clinical outcome .
 in the absence of alter fractionation dose escalation or other therapeutic change the use of imrt by itself would not be expect to improve local control outcome for patient with adjuvant breast rt .
 however the possibility of some unforeseen decrement in outcome with imrt be ignore .
 imrt have unique potential pitfall include great difficulty verify treatment delivery potentially increase effect of interfraction and intrafraction motion and setup error and theoretical concern for increase risk of radiation-induced malignancy .
 the use of dmlc and other imrt treatment delivery technique result in a modest decrease in surface buildup dose compare with conventional field 28 .
 it be possible that the decrease dose to superficial subcutaneous breast tissue adversely affect local control as other have theorize 18 .
 this study report clinical outcome for both the large number and the long follow-up to date of patient treat with breast imrt and find no significant difference in os or dss and no difference in rate of ibtr cbtr dm or second malignancy between patient treat with imrt and crt .
 there be no evidence that patient with little severe acute skin toxicity experience a great rate of local failure .
 it should be note that the absence of a difference in this study be not proof of treatment equivalence .
 because the two technique share identical treatment field and use the same dose and fractionation any difference in local control would likely be little than the power of this study to detect .
 similarly if imrt increase the risk of second malignancy or contralateral breast cancer such an increase would be expect to be small and require a much large study with long follow-up to potentially detect .
 however with few randomized study of breast imrt and conventional treatment we must look to mature experience with imrt to find long-term clinical outcome and evaluate for possible untoward effect .
 future direction .
 one advantage of the breast imrt technique describe here be the preservation of conventional treatment field and volume which decrease but do not eliminate the possibility of a difference in treatment efficacy .
 newer breast imrt technique include current institutional technique often use ct-based volume contour which show considerable variability among individual and institution 31 .
 early imrt technique be design to improve breast dose homogeneity but make no direct contribution to normal tissue avoidance because of limitation with the treatment planning software .
 use current software such relatively simple breast imrt technique as this can also incorporate normal tissue avoidance .
 a breast imrt technique similar to initial technique be show to achieve homogenous target coverage and equivalent or well normal tissue spare in one third the planning time of much complicate imrt technique 32 .
 advantages of much sophisticated breast imrt technique include superior dosimetry when inclusion of internal mammary node be desire and the ability to shorten the treatment course with delivery of a simultaneous integrate tumor bed boost or far hypofractionation 33 34 35 36 and 37 .
 this breast imrt technique offer the possibility of much convenient and even well tolerate treatment with a low risk of late toxicity .
 however it remain to be see whether such change in target delineation fractionation or both will affect long-term outcome for patient with adjuvant breast rt .
 long-term follow-up of own initial breast imrt technique find no difference in clinical outcome compare with a cohort treat with crt .
 by improve the therapeutic ratio breast imrt may remove many exist barrier to proper use of adjuvant breast rt without compromise the fundamental principle of whole-breast irradiation .
 conclusion .
 patient treat with forward-planned tangential breast imrt use dmlc and edws experience a decrease in significant acute skin toxicity and long-term follow-up show excellent outcome with os dss ibtr cbtr dm and second malignancy rate similar to those in a contemporaneous cohort treat with crt .
 in the absence of randomized datum long-term follow-up of patient treat with new breast imrt technique be indicate .
 uncited table .
 table .
 table .
 toxicity .
 imrtconventionalp acute dermatitis rtog grade dermatitis rtog grade 2 breast late radiation fat second .
 full-size table .
 abbreviation imrt intensity-modulated radiotherapy rtog radiation therapy oncology group .
 view within articl .
 investigation on the mode of action reveal that tubulin be the primary target of this they bind to the colchicine binding site and prevent the polymerization of the dimer to functional microtubules which be require for vital function of the cell include mitosis .
 though this compound be active in the nanomolar range their in vivo activity be disappointing probably due to the presence of the metabolically unstable aldehyde function .
 chemical modification of this functional group should render this molecule stable under physiological condition .
 one of first modification perform comprise the conversion of the aldehyde function into methyl imines 2a and oximes 2b .
 the methyl imines prove to be simply prodrugs that release the aldehyde after the oximes however be stable and display activity somewhat low than those of the parent this result prompt us to convert the aldehyde into other stable derivative .
 in this study we describe the synthesis and biological characterization of the knoevenagel condensation product of the aldehyde with malononitrile .
 full-size image 36k figure example for indole-derived agent that inhibit cell cycle progression through different mechanism .
 view within article .
 the main objective of this study be the search for compound which strongly inhibit tumor growth by a blockade of the cell cycle .
 as show for the 2-phenylindole-3-carbaldehyde 1 and other antimitotic agent the inhibition of tubulin polymerization be accompany by a cell cycle arrest in the g2 m this blockade of the normal cell cycle render the cell susceptible to apoptosis .
 cell cycle intervention have emerge as an interesting new strategy to combat the first approve drug which inhibit tumor growth by cell cycle arrest in g2 m phase be the vinca alkaloid which inhibit tubulin much recently natural product such as the taxane have be discover which block the cell cycle in the same phase by stabilize the other attractive target be enzyme control the cell cycle such as cyclin-dependent a large number of heterocycle-based compound have be find to inhibit some of this kinase especially cdk4 and cdk6 .
 since we be mainly interested in indole derivative a selection of those agent contain this structural element be present in figure .
 the simple example be indole-3-carbinol a natural constituent of crucifer plant .
 it induce the arrest of the cell cycle in g1 phase and inhibit the growth of breast cancer major acid-catalyzed reaction product diindolylmethane 3 also interfere with the cell cycle progression of breast cancer other indole-based inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinase be indirubin and cell cycle control in g1 phase can also be achieve with the indolyl sulfonamide 4 whereas the diindolylmethylene derivative 5 block the cell cycle in g2 m .
 in the present study we convert the 2-phenylindole-3-carbaldehyde 1 which block the cell cycle in g2 m phase by inhibition of tubulin polymerization to 2-phenylindol-3-yl methylenepropanedinitriles 6 and determine anti-proliferative activity in mda-mb 231 and mcf-7 breast cancer cell .
 the effect on the cell cycle be analyzed by flow cytometry .
 since a cell cycle arrest may lead to an apoptotic cell death marker of apoptosis such as the activation of caspase 3 and 9 be determine for two representative example .
 a major goal of this study be the discovery of potent antitumor agent that retain activity in vivo .
 thus one of the compound synthesize be evaluate in the mxt mouse mammary tumor model .
 result and .
 chemistry .
 in previous investigation the much favorable substitution pattern of the start 2-phenylindole-3-carbaldehyde 1 in respect to antitumor activity have be we decide to select the same substituents because we anticipate a similar mode of action for the propanedinitrile the conversion of the aldehyde 1 to the corresponding methylene propanedinitrile 6 be readily accomplish by the reaction with malononitrile .
 this structural modification should not alter the physico-chemical property of the indole core much and would lead only to minor steric effect .
 we also have synthesize some analogue of the methylene propanedinitrile in which one of the nitrile group have be replace by hydrogen carboxamide or carboxylate group but all this modification abolish or strongly decrease the activity of the indole derivative .
 thus the datum for this compound be not present .
 full-size image 14k figure synthesis of 2-phenylindol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6a s .
 view within article .
 anti-proliferative activity .
 all of the compound synthesize be first evaluate for anti-proliferative activity use hormone-independent human mda-mb 231 breast cancer cell in a microplate assay .
 as one of the reference compound the unsubstituted 2-phenylindol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6a be use .
 it strongly inhibit the growth of this cell with an value of m .
 based on previous investigation with methoxy-substituted 2-phenylindole-3-carbaldehyde a series of compound with a methoxy group in the para-position of the phenyl ring and a variety of lipophilic substituents in position 5 and or 6 of the indole include halogens and alkyl group of variable length be test .
 all 2- 4 methoxyphenyl indole derivative strongly inhibit the growth of mda-mb 231 cell with value below 1 m .
 the potency of the unsubstituted indole 6a be significantly increase when substituents have be introduce that add a substantial amount of lipophilicity to the parent molecule as exemplify by the 5 alkyl derivative 6l n .
 elongation of the alkyl chain from methyl to pentyl decrease the value from to m .
 a similar observation be make with 2 phenylindole furnish with a methyl ethyl or trifluoromethyl group in para-position of the phenyl ring 6o s .
 the value be only one order of magnitude high than that of the establish antimitotic drug vincristine .
 when the methoxy group in this ring be shift to the 3 position the activity decrease from to m value .
 a polar character of the substituents in the indole moiety be detrimental to the anti-proliferative potency .
 the value of the 6-methoxy-2- 4 methoxyphenyl indole derivative 6d drop by one order of magnitude when the ether function in 6 position be cleave datum not show .
 table .
 anti-proliferative effect of 2-phenylindol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6a s on human mda-mb 231 and mcf-7 breast cancer cell .
 compoundr1r2r3mda-mb 231a m mcf-7b m .
 full-size table .
 a inhibition of cell growth determine after incubation for 4 day and subsequent crystal violet staining of viable cell .
 mean value of two independent experiment with 16-24 replicate sd be generally little than .
 b analogous experiment as describe for mda-mb 231 cell with one exception the incubation period be 5 day .
 c not determine .
 view within article .
 full-size image 18k figure inhibitory effect of 4 methoxyphenyl indol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6 with variable alkyl chain length on the growth of mda-mb 231 breast cancer cell .
 inhibition of cell growth be determine after incubation for 4 day and subsequent crystal violet staining of viable cell .
 vincristine vin be use as reference drug .
 view within article .
 all 2-phenylindol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6 be also test for anti-proliferative activity in mcf-7 breast cancer cell .
 since similar activity be observe in both cell line an involvement of the estrogen receptor present in mcf-7 cell can be rule out .
 the difference in activity be usually within the statistical error of both assay except for a small number of compound value differ by a factor of 2 or much 6a 6i 6j 6l 6o q 6 .
 there be no general preference in sensitivity between this two cell line though a slight tendency to high value in mcf-7 cell be notice .
 the comparison of the inhibitory effect of the methylene propanedinitrile 6 with those of the corresponding 2-phenylindole-3-carbaldehyde 1 reveal that the latter be much active by a factor of 3 .
 cell cycle arrest in g2 m-phase .
 previous study with 2-phenylindole-3-carbaldehyde 1 have show that this aldehyde exert cytotoxic effect through inhibition of tubulin polymerization and cell cycle arrest in g2 m-phase .
 thus it be of interest to study the effect of the 2-phenylindol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6 on the cell cycle .
 in this assay the cell cycle dependent dna content of mda-mb 231 cell be determine by flow cytometry use propidium iodide in permeabilized cell .
 first one of the much active methylene propanedinitrile 6n be study for effect on the cell cycle in comparison to the corresponding aldehyde 1n and vincristine .
 treatment of the cell with any of this three agent lead to a decrease of the peak for cell in the g1 phase and the parallel increase of the number of cell in g2 m phase due to the blockade of the cell cycle in g2 m phase .
 this change in the cell cycle distribution be accompany by the appearance of significant quantity of cell with a dna content low than that in g1 cell sub-g1 fraction .
 the comparison reveal that 6n exert the same effect as 1n but require a tenfold high concentration v m .
 vincristine be even much active and block the cell cycle at a concentration .
 full-size image 51k figure flow cytometry analysis of cell cycle .
 mda-mb 231 breast cancer cell be expose to compound 1n 6n and vincristine in various concentration for 24 h .
 the dna content be quantify by the standard propidium iodide procedure as describe in the experimental section .
 cell be assign to those in g1- label b s- label c and g2 m-phase label d and to sub-g1 cell label a respectively accord to dna content .
 view within article .
 five much derivative with different cytostatic potency be examine for effect on the cell cycle progression in increase concentration .
 already at very low concentration a significant sub-g1 fraction appear probably due to apoptotic process in cell of the g1 pool .
 sometimes this phenomenon become evident before cell cycle arrest occur 6f in 5a 6p in 5c .
 according to the reduce number of cell in g1 phase this peak decrease at high concentration .
 usually blockade of the cell cycle be observe at concentration five- to tenfold high than the value .
 full-size image 47k figure cell cycle distribution of mda-mb 231 cell treat for 24 h with 2-phenylindol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6f 6o panel a 6h 6n panel b and 6p 6q panel c in various concentration .
 vincristine vin be use as reference drug .
 percentage of sub-g1 cell and cell in g1 s- and g2 m-phase be show .
 data refer to a representative experiment out of two .
 view within article .
 inhibition of tubulin polymerization .
 one of the possible explanation for the cell cycle arrest be the inhibition of tubulin polymerization to functional microtubules as it be observe for antimitotic agent such as colchicine and combretastatin a-4 .
 therefore two methylene propanedinitrile 6c and 6f and the corresponding 2-phenylindole-3-carbaldehyde 1c and 1f be test for inhibitory activity on the polymerization of tubulin isolate from calf brain .
 for comparison the aldehyde 1a and 1b and colchicine be include in this assay .
 cytotoxicity be determine in two breast cancer cell line which differ by estrogen receptor status er- mda-mb 231 mcf-7 and the vulva carcinoma cell line a-431 which be characterize by high level of egf receptor .
 the progression of tubulin polymerization be measure turbidimetrically at nm in cuvette over a period of min after the temperature have be raise from 2 to 37 at a concentration of m colchicine and the aldehyde 1b 1c and 1f suppress tubulin polymerization whereas both methylene propanedinitrile be inactive .
 the datum on cytotoxicity determine in three different cell line reveal that the inhibition of tumor cell growth by the derivative 6c and 6f do not depend on the blockade of tubulin polymerization .
 in this respect the methylene propanedinitrile 6c and 6f resemble the unsubstituted aldehyde 1a which also inhibit cell growth without affect tubulin polymerization at relevant concentration .
 this result make an alternative mode of action for the latter compound likely .
 table .
 effect of 2-phenylindole-3-carbaldehyde 1a-c and 1f and of 2-phenylindol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6c and 6f on the growth of human cancer cell and tubulin polymerization .
 compoundr1r2r3xmda-mb 231a m mcf-7b m a-431c m tpd t c 7 4 4 6comehomec cn 5 5 6fhfomec cn 6 5 full-size table .
 a inhibition of cell growth determine after incubation for 4 day and subsequent crystal violet staining of viable cell .
 mean value of four independent experiment with 16 24 replicate sd .
 b the incubation period be 5 day .
 c the incubation period be 3 day .
 d tubulin polymerization in the presence of inhibitor m control without inhibitor .
 e not test .
 view within article .
 activation of caspase .
 the inhibition of cell growth by the indole derivative 6 be accompany by the occurrence of a substantial sub-g1 fraction in the cell cycle analysis .
 this effect be probably due to apoptotic process induce in g1 and or g2 phase .
 this observation be in accord with microscopic image of the cell nucleus take after treatment with 6f m .
 they show blackberry-like structure and a fragmentation pattern of the nucleus typical for apoptosis image not shown .
 the apoptotic path to cell death be characterize by the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria the induction of various caspase enzyme condensation of the chromosome and the fragmentation of nuclear in this study the cleavage of caspase 3 and 9 substrate be use as biochemical marker of apoptosis .
 two representative example of the methylene propanedinitrile 6m and 6q be test for ability to increase caspase activity within 24 h in human leukemia cell .
 both compound induce caspase activity at a 1-m concentration with somewhat different effect on the cleavage of the caspase 3 and 9 substrate .
 the induction of caspase 9 like activity be much strong than that observe for the reference antitumor agent etoposide even when etoposide be apply at an eightfold high concentration .
 strongly enhance caspase activity of 6m and 6q be also observe at 24 h at a concentration of m datum not show .
 the indole derivative also inhibit the growth of the cell after a 48 h treatment with value of nm 6m and nm 6q respectively as determine by the mtt in this assay the clinically use anticancer agent etoposide display an value of 31572 nm .
 full-size image 15k figure effect of 6m m 6q m and etoposide 8 m on caspase 3 like panel a and caspase 9 like panel b activity of cell after a 24 h exposure .
 control show caspase activity at the beginning of treatment .
 bar represent mean of three independent experiment sd .
 all increase be statistically significant a p b p .
 view within article .
 although this study provide strong evidence that apoptosis be the mechanism of cell death for the title compound necrosis as the compete action be rule out .
 therefore we stain cell that be use for the induction of caspase with trypan blue a procedure that be apply to detect necrotic cells23 although the uptake of trypan blue can occur in both apoptotic and necrotic staining of the cell with trypan blue after a 24 h treatment period with etoposide 8 m 6m 1 m and 6q 1 m show the occurrence of many cell that have take up the dye though roughly the same number of cell remain unstained .
 untreated control cell show hardly any uptake of the dye .
 since staining of cell with trypan blue do not allow a clear distinction to be make between necrosis and apoptosis other method be require to quantify the number of cell undergo apoptosis such as count the cell with nuclear condensation23 or the addition of cycloheximide which block the synthesis of protein require for apoptotic nevertheless the picture obtain by light microscopy of cell treat with m of 6m or 6q show similar morphology to those treat with m etoposide after 24 h see supplementary material .
 inhibition of mxt mouse mammary tumor .
 preliminary study of the aldehyde 1 in a mxt mouse mammary tumor model reveal that the antitumor activity observe in vitro be lose in vivo .
 this lack of in vivo activity can be rationalized by the presence of a metabolically labile aldehyde function .
 thus the aldehyde be convert to derivative with a modify functional group .
 since the indole derivative 6 have retain their in vitro activity a representative compound of this series 6f be evaluate in vivo .
 as test model the hormone-independent transplantable mxt mouse mammary tumor be use .
 treatment be start 24 h after transplantation and last two week .
 at the end of treatment the tumor size of treat animal be compare with that of untreated control animal .
 the methylene propanedinitrile 6f show a significant dose-dependent inhibition of tumor growth .
 the effect be comparable to that of the effect of the reference drug cisplatin be not reach in this experiment because cisplatin be administer in a sub-toxic dose 2 mg kg which lead to a reduction of body weight whereas the animal show no sign of toxicity when treat with or mg of 6f per kilogram body weight .
 full-size image 12k figure inhibitory effect of indole 6f and cisplatin on the growth of transplant mxt mouse mammary tumor after two week of treatment .
 each point of the scatter diagram represent the tumor area of one animal .
 the state dose be administer subcutaneously three time per week .
 view within article .
 table .
 effect of 6f and cisplatin on the growth of hormone-resistant mxt mouse mammary tumor .
 compounddosea mg tumor areab mm2 t ccchange of body weightd 294 cisplatin28 .
 full-size table .
 a dose kg body weight administer three time per week .
 b mean sd after two week of treatment .
 c tumor area of treat animal tumor area of control animal .
 d difference of mean body weight between the first and the last day of treatment .
 e significant inhibition of tumor growth p .
 f significant inhibition of tumor growth p .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 the aim of this study be the chemical modification of the antimitotic 2-phenylindole-3-carbaldehyde 1 to derivative with in vivo activity .
 since the only reactive group in 1 be the aldehyde function conversion to a methylene propanedinitrile structure should render the molecule stable to metabolic transformation that reduce the bioactivity of the parent structure .
 the result of this study show that the carbonyl oxygen in the 2-phenylindole-3-carbaldehyde can be replace by the dicyanomethylene group without abolish the anti-proliferative activity on cancer cell .
 it be also interesting to note that the different substituents in the methylene propanedinitrile 6 have a similar influence on the antitumor activity as in the aldehyde series .
 the similarity of the structure activity relationship indicate a common mode of action for both aldehyde 1 and the corresponding methylene propanedinitrile 6 but when we investigate the mode of action of the methylene propanenitriles 6 we find that they must act through a different mechanism .
 the aldehyde 1 be show to inhibit tubulin polymerization and this action be assume to be responsible for the strong antimitotic effect of the aldehyde .
 the fact that the propanedinitrile and aldehyde share the same structure activity profile and the significantly high activity of much the aldehyde can be rationalized by a common mode of action for both type of indole derivative but must encompass an additional effect of the aldehyde on tubulin polymerization .
 this assumption be support by the datum for the unsubstituted aldehyde 1a and 4 methoxy derivative 1b .
 both show similar cytostatic activity but only 1b inhibit tubulin polymerization .
 obviously the methoxy group in para-position of the phenyl ring play a crucial role in the interaction with tubulin .
 when the methoxy group be locate in the 6 position of the indole rather than in para-position of the phenyl ring no inhibition of tubulin polymerization be .
 the precise mechanism by which the methylene propanedinitrile 6 inhibit cell growth remain unclear .
 this agent block the cell cycle in g2 m phase and drive the cell into an apoptotic cell death .
 this process be probably mediate by the activation of caspase such as caspase 3 and both enzyme activity be strongly stimulate at concentration 4- to fold high than and much low than those require for the anticancer drug etoposide .
 this finding be in accord with the observe fragmentation of nuclear dna at submicromolar concentration .
 from the datum obtain the growth inhibitory effect of the indole 6 can be rationalized as the result of an apoptotic cell death follow the cell cycle arrest in g2 m phase .
 however the reason for the cell cycle blockade be not evident .
 an interaction with tubulin as find for the corresponding aldehyde can be exclude .
 another target we consider be the egf receptor associate ptk because the structure of the methylene propanedinitrile 6 resemble some however an inhibition of egf receptor phosphorylation which would cause a cell cycle arrest in the late g1 phase27 be not observe .
 obviously the tyrphostin require free phenolic hydroxyl group for action on egf receptor .
 we also check some other protein tyrosine kinase from human placental tissue but find no activity .
 whether cdk or cyclin be involve in the observe cell cycle blockade remain to be investigate .
 the chemical structure of the indole-based methylene propanedinitrile however exhibit hardly any similarity with know inhibitor of .
 an important aspect of the application of anti-proliferative agent as anticancer drug be their in vivo activity .
 one of the compound of this study be use to treat mouse bear transplant hormone-independent mxt mammary tumor .
 a significant inhibition of tumor growth be achieve without obvious adverse effect .
 though this datum be derived from a single experiment and be preliminary in character they can be consider as proof of principle .
 this indole derivative exhibit in vivo activity which remain to be optimized .
 conclusion .
 a series of 2-phenylindole-3-carbaldehyde 1 which have previously be characterize as antimitotic agent of high potency be convert to the corresponding methylene propanedinitrile 6 to render them stable to possible metabolic transformation of the aldehyde function .
 the in vitro assay on anti-proliferative activity in various cell line reveal that the potency of this 2 phenylindole derivative decrease only slightly upon this structural modification .
 the increase of the value in human mda-mb 231 and mcf-7 breast cancer cell be generally little than the factor of though the methylene propanedinitrile share the same structure activity relationship with the aldehyde molecular target s however might be different because they do not interfere with the polymerization of tubulin the dominant molecular action of the 2-phenylindole-3-carbaldehyde .
 similar as the aldehyde the methylene propanedinitrile block the cell cycle in g2 m phase and drive the tumor cell into apoptosis as demonstrate by the strong increase of caspase 3 and 9 activity .
 the question whether the necrotic cell death also play a role yet be clearly answer .
 an important aspect of this study be the in vivo activity of this class of antimitotic agent .
 thus the derivative 6f be evaluate in vivo for antitumor activity .
 it significantly inhibit the growth of transplant mxt mouse mammary tumor at dose between and mg kg body weight .
 this in vivo activity be not parallel by the corresponding aldehyde .
 the biological characteristic of this new compound make them interesting candidate for far development as anticancer agent .
 .
 general method .
 melting point be determine on a bchi apparatus and be uncorrected .
 1h nmr spectrum be record in d6-dmso on and spectrometer bruker with tms as internal standard and be in accord with the assign structure .
 mass spectrum be obtain with a mat-311a spectrometer varian .
 purity of all compound be check by tlc .
 elemental analysis be perform by the mikroanalytisches laboratorium university of regensburg .
 the synthesis of the start aldehyde 1a 1e and 1g s1 have be describe previously .
 preparation of 2-phenylindol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6 to a suspension of the 2-phenylindole-3-carbaldehyde 1 mmol and malonic acid dinitrile 55 mmol in etoh 5 ml be add 2 3 drop of piperidine .
 the mixture be then heat under reflux for 2 h .
 after cooling h2o ml be add slowly .
 the crystalline precipitate be separate by filtration and purify by recrystallization from etoh or by column chromatography sio2 with ch2cl2 etoac mixture as the eluent .
 2-phenylindol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6a yellow crystal yield mp 217 219 .
 1h nmr m 9h arh s 1h vinyl-h m 1h indole-h4 .
 for c18h11n3 calcd c h n find c h n .
 4-methoxyphenyl -indol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6b yellow crystal yield mp c etoh .
 1h nmr s 3h och3 aabb 3j hz 4h phenyl-h m 2h indole-h m 1h indole-h s 1h vinyl-h m 1h indole h s 1h n-h .
 for c19h13n3o calcd c h n find c h n .
 4 methoxyphenyl -indol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6c yellow crystal yield mp 257 c etoh .
 1h nmr s 3h och3 s 3h och3 dd 3j hz 4j hz 1h indole-h6 aabb 3j hz 4h phenyl-h d 3j hz 1h indole-h7 d 4j hz 1h indole-h4 s 1h vinyl-h s 1h n-h .
 for calcd c h n find c h n .
 4 methoxyphenyl -indol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6d yellow solid yield mp 1h nmr s 3h och3 s 3h och3 dd 3j hz 4j hz 1h indole-h5 d 3j hz 1h indole-h7 aabb 3j hz 4h phenyl-h s 1h vinyl-h d 3j hz 1h indole-h4 s 1h n-h .
 for calcd c h n find c h n .
 4 methoxyphenyl -indol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6e yellow crystal yield mp 225 c etoh .
 1h nmr s 3h och3 m 3h indole-h aabb 3j hz 4h phenyl-h s 1h vinyl-h s 1h n-h .
 for c19h12fn3o calcd c h n find h n .
 4 methoxyphenyl -indol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6f orange crystal yield mp 228-232 1h nmr s 3h och3 m 3h arh aabb 3j 9 hz 4h arh s 1h vinyl-h m 1h indole-h4 .
 for c19h12fn3o calcd c h n find c h n .
 4 methylphenyl indol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6g yellow crystal yield mp 258 c etoh .
 1h nmr s 3h ch3 s 3h och3 dd 3j 8 hz 4j 2 hz 1h indole-h5 d 4j 2 hz 1h indole-h7 aabb 3j 9 hz 4h phenyl-h s 2h vinyl-h and indole-h4 s 1h n-h .
 for calcd c h n find c h n .
 4-methoxyphenyl -5-methylindol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6h yellow solid yield mp c etoh .
 1h nmr s 3h ch3 s 3h och3 m 2h aabb 3j 9 hz 4h phenyl-h s 1h vinyl-h s 1h indole-h4 s br 1h n-h .
 for calcd c h n find c h n .
 4 methoxyphenyl -5-methylindol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6i yellow solid yield mp 234 c etoh .
 1h nmr ppm s 3h ch3 s 3h och3 aabb 3j 9 hz 4h phenyl-h s 1h indole-h4 s 1h indole-h7 s 1h vinyl-h s br 1h n-h .
 for calcd c h n find c h n .
 4-methoxyphenyl -5-n-propylindol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6j yellow crystal yield mp c etoh .
 1h nmr t 3j 7 hz 3h ch2 ch3 sext 3j 7 hz 2h ch2 ch2 ch3 t 3j 7 hz 2h ch2 ch2 s 3h och3 m 1h indole-h6 aabb 3j 9 hz 4h phenyl-h d 3j 8 hz 1h indole-h7 d 4j 2 hz 1h indole-h4 s 1h vinyl-h s 1h n-h .
 for c22h19n3o calcd c h n find c h n .
 4 methoxyphenyl indol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6k yellow solid yield mp 145 c etoh .
 1h nmr d 3j 7 hz 6h ch- ch3 2 sept 3j 7 hz 1h ch- ch3 2 s 3h och3 aabb 3j 9 hz 4h phenyl-h m 1h indole-h6 d 3j 8 hz 1h indole-h7 s 1h indole-h4 vinyl-h s br 1h n-h .
 for c22h19n3o calcd c h n find c h n .
 4 methoxyphenyl indol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6l yellow solid yield mp 154 c etoh .
 1h nmr t 3j 7 hz 3h ch2 ch3 sext 3j 7 hz 2h ch2 ch2 ch3 quin 3j 7 hz 2h ch2 ch2 ch2 t 3j 7 hz 2h ch2 ch2 s 3h och3 aabb 3j 9 hz 4h phenyl-h d 3j 8 hz 1h indole-h6 d j3 8 hz 1h indole-h7 s 1h indole-h4 s 1h vinyl-h s 1h n-h .
 for c23h21n3o calcd c h n find c h n .
 4-methoxyphenyl -5-n-pentylindol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6m yellow solid yield mp 158 c etoh .
 1h nmr t 3j 7 hz 3h ch2 ch3 m 4h ch2 ch2 2 ch3 m 2h ch2 ch2 ch2 t 3j 7 hz 2h ch2 ch2 s 3h och3 d 3j 8 hz 1h indole-h6 aabb 3j 9 hz 4h phenyl-h d 3j 8 hz 1h indole-h7 s 1h indol-h4 s 1h vinyl-h s br 1h n-h .
 for c24h23n3o calcd c h n find c h n .
 4 methoxyphenyl indol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6n yellow solid yield mp 131 c etoh .
 1h nmr t 3j 7 hz 3h ch2 ch3 m 6h ch2 ch2 3 ch3 m 2h ch2 ch2 ch2 t 3j 7 hz 2h ch2 ch2 s 3h och3 d 4j 1 hz 1h indole-h6 aabb 3j 9 hz 4h phenyl-h d 3j 8 hz 1h indole-h7 s 1h indole-h4 s 1h vinyl-h s br 1h n-h .
 for c25h25n3o calcd c h n find c h n .
 4 methylphenyl indol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6o orange crystal yield mp c etoh .
 1h nmr t 3h 3j 7 hz ch2 ch3 m 2h ch2 ch2 ch3 m 2h ch2 ch2 ch2 s 3h ch3 t 2h 3j 7 hz ch2 ch2 dd 1h 3j 8 hz 4j 2hz indole-h6 d 3h 3j 8hz indole-h7 and phenyl-h d 2h 3j 8 hz phenyl-h s 1h indole-h4 s 1h vinyl-h s br 1h n-h .
 for c23h21n3 calcd c h n find c h n .
 4 ethylphenyl indol-3-yl methylene propanedinitrile 6p yellow powder yield mp 164 165 etoh .
 1h nmr t 3h 3j 7 hz ch2 ch3 t 3h 3j 7 hz ch2 ch3 m 2h ch2 ch2 ch3 m 2h ch2 ch2 ch2 m 4h ch2 ch3 and ch2 ch2 dd 1h 3j 8 hz 4j 2 hz indole-h6 m 3h indole-h7 and phenyl-h d 2h phenyl-h s 2h vinyl-h and indole-h4 s br 1h n-h ms m z 353 m 84 m .
 for c24h23n3 1 2h2o calcd c h n find c h n .
 4- trifluoromethyl phenyl indol-3- yl methylene propanedinitrile 6q orange powder yield mp 212 213 c etoh .
 1h nmr t 3h 3j 7 hz ch2 ch3 m 2h ch2 ch2 ch3 m 2h ch2 ch2 ch2 t 2h 3j 7 hz ch2 ch2 dd 1h 3j 8 hz 4j 2hz indole-h6 d 1h 3j 8 hz indole-h7 m 3h phenyl-h and indole-h4 d 2h 3j 8 hz phenyl-h s 1h vinyl-h s br 1h n-h .
 for c23h18f3n3 calcd c h n find c n .
 4- trifluoromethyl phenyl indol-3- yl methylene propanedinitrile 6r yellow solid yield mp 195 196 c etoh .
 1h nmr t 3h 3j 7 hz ch2 ch3 m 4h ch2 ch2 2 ch2 m 2h ch2 ch2 ch2 t 2h 3j 7 hz ch2 ch2 dd 1h 3j 8 hz 4j 2hz indole-h6 d 1h 3j 8 hz indole-h7 d 4h 3j 8 hz aabb phenyl-h s 1h indole-h4 s 1h vinyl-h s br 1h n-h ms m z 56 m m .
 for calcd c h n find c h n .
 4- trifluoromethyl phenyl indol-3- yl methylene propanedinitrile 6 orange crystal yield mp 177 178 c etoh .
 1hnmr t 3h 3j 7 hz ch2 ch3 m 6h ch2 ch2 3 ch3 m 2h ch2 ch2 ch2 t 2h 3j 7hz ch2 ch2 dd 1h 3j 8 hz 4j 2 hz indole-h6 d 1h 3j 8 hz indole-h7 s 1h indole-h4 d 4h 3j 8 hz aabb phenyl-h s 1h vinyl-h s br 1h n-h ms m z 421 62 m m .
 for c25h22f3n3 calcd c h n find c h n .
 material and reagent for bioassays .
 drug and biochemical be obtain from sigma deisenhofen germany except where note .
 all cell line use mda-mb 231 and mcf-7 breast cancer cell a-431 vulva carcinoma cell be of human origin and be obtain from the american type culture collection atcc rockville md .
 female b6d2f1 mouse be buy from charles-river sulzfeld germany .
 the mxt mammary tumor be generously provide by bogden laboratory of experimental oncology worcester mass usa .
 determination of anti-proliferative activity .
 hormone-independent human mda-mb 231 breast cancer cell be grow in mccoy-5a medium supplement with l-glutamine 73 mg l gentamycin sulfate mg l nahco3 g l and sterilize fetal calf serum fcs .
 at the start of the experiment the cell suspension be transfer to 96 well microplate l well .
 after the cell have grow for 2 3 day in a humidify incubator with co2 at 37 c medium be replace by one contain the test compound l well .
 control well 16 plate contain of dmf that be use for the preparation of stock solution .
 initial cell density be determine by addition of glutaric dialdehyde in pbs l well instead of test compound .
 after incubation for about 4 day the medium be remove and l of glutaric dialdehyde in pbs be add for fixation .
 after 15 min the solution of aldehyde be decant .
 cell be stain by treat them for 25 min with l of an aqueous solution of crystal violet .
 after decant cell be wash several time with water to remove adherent dye .
 after addition of l etoh plate be gently shake for 2 h .
 optical density of each well be measure in a microplate autoreader el bio-tek at 578 nm .
 for hormone-sensitive mcf-7 human breast cancer cell a similar procedure to that describe for mda-mb 231 cell be apply with alteration cell be grow in emem supplement with sodium pyruvate mg l gentamycin sulfate mg l nahco3 g l phenol red and fcs .
 an analogous protocol be apply for a-431 vulva carcinoma cell with two modification .
 the concentration of fcs be reduce to and the incubation period be 4 day .
 for the determination of the value in the cell line the mtt assay be use as previously .
 flow cytometry .
 mda-mb 231 cell be grow to confluence on the bottom of a 75 cm2 culture flask .
 test substance be dissolve in dmf and dilute to the require concentration .
 the content of dmf in medium and in control after time dilution be set to .
 for each concentration one culture flask be use .
 cell be expose to test substance for 24 h .
 this incubation time be necessary to obtain a sufficient number of cell cell .
 after incubation the cell be trypsinized centrifuged in an excess of serum contain medium for min and wash with pbs .
 the pellet of cell be resuspended in 1 ml of pbs and 9 ml of etoh ice-cold .
 etoh and pbs be remove by centrifugation and the cell be wash with pbs .
 after the addition of ml of pbs and ml of dna extraction buffer the cell be transfer into eppendorf cup 2 ml incubate for 5 min at room temperature and centrifuged again .
 the cell be stain with 1 ml of propidium iodide solution for at least min at room temperature and then analyzed by flow cytometry use a facs-calibur .
 for analysis datum file for four parameter be collect for event from each sample .
 the flow rate be adjust to .
 cell s for appropriate accuracy .
 data be analyzed by the winmdi software .
 tubulin polymerization .
 isolation and purification of calf brain tubulin .
 the cortex of one or two fresh calf brain in ice-cold pem buffer 1 ml g tissue mg dte ml buffer solution be homogenize in portion .
 after centrifugation min at 2 4 c the supernatant be carefully decant .
 the concentration of gtp and atp be adjust to and mm respectively .
 after stir gently at 37 c for min the solution be transfer to centrifugation tube and carefully underlayered with a pre-warmed 37 c sucrose solution in pem buffer solution contain 1 mm gtp of the transfer volume .
 after centrifugation at 37 c for 45 min the pellet be weigh and suspend in ice-cold pem buffer solution 3 ml g and homogenize in a teflon-in-glass potter .
 after stand in ice for min the suspension be centrifuged at 2 c for min .
 the supernatant be separate and adjust to 1 mm gtp .
 by incubation at 37 c for 15 min tubulin be polymerized once again .
 after centrifugation at 37 c for min microtubules be obtain as shiny gel-like pellet .
 the yield range from 2 to 6 g per brain .
 aliquots be freeze in liquid nitrogen and store at purity be check by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis .
 temperature-induced tubulin polymerization .
 the pellet of freeze microtubules be warm to 37 c in a water bath .
 after addition of the fold volume of ice-cold pemg buffer it be homogenize .
 depolymerization be complete by keep the mixture at c for min follow by centrifugation at 2 c min to remove insoluble protein .
 each reaction tube contain ml of the supernatant and l of the dmso solution of the test compound in vary concentration .
 reaction mixture be preincubated at 37 c for 15 min and chill on ice follow by addition of l of a 25 mm gtp solution in pemg buffer to each tube .
 reaction mixture be transfer to cuvette of a uv spectrophotometer connect to two different temperature controller .
 first the temperature inside the cuvette be hold at 2 the cuvette holder be then switch to the second temperature controller at 37 c and the absorption be measure over a period of min at nm .
 absorption at the start of the reaction be use as baseline .
 three independent experiment be perform for the determination of value .
 each experiment have two control reaction mixture mean value be define as and turbidity reading be generally within of each other .
 caspase induction studies28 .
 human acute myeloid leukemia cell dsmz be maintain in logarithmic growth in rpmi supplement with fcs mg l of penicillin g and mg l of streptomycin sulfate .
 apoptosis be induce by treatment of cell cell ml with the indole derivative or with etoposide as the reference drug .
 cell be incubate in a humid atmosphere of co2 at 37 c and the cell lysate be prepare after 24 h of treatment .
 for the preparation of the cell-free extract all step be perform at 4 cell be pelleted at for 4 min wash with pbs once again pelleted at for 3 min and resuspended in hypotonic hepes buffer mm hepes ph 5 mm dithiothreitol dtt 2 mm na edta w v chaps .
 after a min incubation on ice lysate be centrifuged at for min .
 the supernatant be remove while take care to avoid the pellet .
 fifty microliter aliquot contain 2 4 g of cytosolic protein estimate by the bradford method be pre-incubated with m of appropriate protease inhibitor benzyloxycarbonyl-asp-glu-val-asp-chloromethylketone and acetyl-leu-glu-his-asp-chloromethylketone both from heidelberg germany for caspase 3 and 9 respectively or dmso assay without inhibitor for 5 min at 21 c and then dilute to 198 l with the assay buffer mm hepes 5 mm dtt 2 mm na edta w v chaps .
 the sample be freeze at 32 all experiment be perform within one week of extract preparation .
 caspase 3 and 9 activity be assess by monitoring cleavage of fluorochrome tag synthetic substrate acetyl-asp-met-gln-asp-7-amino-4-methyl-coumarin ac-dmqd-amc and acetyl-leu-glu-his-asp amino-4-trifluoromethyl-coumarin ac-lehd-afc bachem respectively by hplc .
 after thaw of lysate 2 l of appropriate substrate be add final concentration of and m for ac-dmqd-amc and ac-lehd-afc respectively .
 the sample be incubate for min at c and the specific product quantify by rp-hplc with a fluorescence detector l-7485 merck .
 fluorescence be measure by use an excitation wavelength of nm or nm and emission wavelength of or nm for release amc or afc respectively .
 control experiment datum not show confirm that the release of amc or afc be linear for at least min at the condition specify .
 to estimate a specific caspase activity measurement of blank substrate only negative control substrate cell lysate inhibitor and positive control substrate cell lysate be perform .
 from each result obtain as fluorescence unit peak area blank value be subtract .
 standard contain 15 pmol of amc and pmol of afc be utilize to determine the amount of fluorochrome release .
 the result be present as amount of amc or afc release pmol min which can be block by selective protease inhibitor .
 microscopy of cell .
 cell at a density of ml in rpmi medium be treat with either dmf control m 6m m 6q or 8 m etoposide for 24 h at 37 cell be photograph directly at a fold magnification with a sony digital camera mount on a zeiss axiovert 25 phase-contrast microscope .
 determination of antitumor activity in mouse .
 hormone resistant mxt mouse mammary tumor be grow in ovariectomized female b2d2f1 mouse before transplantation .
 at the start of the experiment tumor piece of 1 mm3 be serially transplant into 8- to 9-week-old female b2d2f1 mouse .
 animal be randomly assign to group of 6 8 and treatment start 24 h after transplantation .
 compound 6f be suspend in polyethylene glycol saline the reference drug cisplatin be dissolve in saline .
 both agent be administer subcutaneously on monday wednesday and friday .
 after two week of treatment the tumor area be determine by transdermal calliper measurement of two perpendicular axis one across the large diameter .
 the change of body weight between start and end of therapy be record in order to detect obvious toxicity .
 acknowledgment .
 the author thank doris marko university of karlsruhe for helpful discussion and renate liebl university of regensburg for excellent technical assistance .
 reference and note .
 1 kaufmann pojarova vogel liebl gastpar gross nishino pfaller and von angerer bioorg .
 med .
 chem .
 15 5122 5136 .
 article pdf 834 k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 2 2 gastpar goldbrunner marko and von angerer med .
 chem .
 41 1998 4965 4972 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 24 3 buolamwini curr .
 pharm .
 de .
 6 379 392 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 76 4 webster chem .
 res .
 toxicol .
 13 943 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 16 5 von angerer exp .
 opin .
 ther .
 patents 9 1999 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 6 von angerer curr .
 opin .
 drug discovery dev .
 3 575 584 .
 view record in scopus cited by in scopus 14 7 benson kaye workman garrett walton and de bono br .
 cancer 92 7 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 27 8 sielecki boylan benfield and trainor med .
 chem .
 43 1 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 193 9 garcia brar .
 nguyen bjeldanes and firestone biol .
 chem .
 8756 8764 .
 view record in scopus cited by in scopus 11 cover hsieh tran hallden kim bjeldanes and firestone biol .
 chem .
 273 1998 3838 3847 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 155 11 hong firestone and bjeldanes biochem .
 pharmacol .
 63 .
 article pdf 525 k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 68 12 hong kim firestone and bjeldanes carcinogenesis 23 1297 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 13 rahman li wang sarkar and sarkar cancer res .
 66 4952 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 11 14 nam buettner turkson kim cheng muehlbeyer hippe vatter merz eisenbrand and jove proc .
 natl .
 acad .
 sci .
 .
 5998 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 51 15 moon lee lee song kim kim cho choi and kim bioorg .
 med .
 chem .
 14 237 246 .
 article pdf 267 k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 15 16 kim kim kim lee min ahn and yoon clin .
 cancer res .
 13 253 259 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 5 17 eisenbrand hippe jakobs and muehlbeyer cancer res .
 clin .
 oncol .
 627 635 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 22 18 supuran exp .
 opin .
 invest .
 drug 12 283 287 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 66 19 owa yoshino okauchi yoshimatsu ozawa sugi nagasu koyanagi and kitoh med .
 chem .
 42 1999 3789 3799 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 122 andreani granaiola leoni locatelli morigi rambaldi garaliene farruggia and masotti bioorg .
 med .
 chem .
 12 1121 1128 .
 article pdf 435 k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 13 21 chang and yang microbiol .
 mol .
 biol .
 rev .
 64 821 846 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 221 22 bracht boubakari grnert and bednarski anti-cancer drug 17 41 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 9 23 suzuki kondoh nagashima fujii asakawa and watanabe planta .
 view record in scopus cited by in scopus 6 24 zhang mizumoto sato ogawa kusumoto niiyama and tanaka cancer lett .
 142 1999 129 137 .
 article pdf 477 k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 21 25 szepeshazi schally and nagy breast cancer res .
 treat .
 56 1999 267 276 .
 view record in scopus cited by in scopus 17 26 levitzki biochem .
 pharmacol .
 913 918 .
 abstract pdf 651 k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 82 27 kleinberger-doron shelah capone gazit and levitzki exp .
 cell res .
 241 1998 351 .
 abstract pdf 1158 k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 28 28 saczewski reszka gdaniec grunert and bednarski med .
 chem .
 47 3438 3449 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 11 supplementary datum .
 8122 k .
 microsoft word file .
 supplementary datum .
 view within article .
 corresponding author .
 9419434821 fax .
 bioorganic medicinal chemistry .
 volume 15 issue 23 1 december 7368-7379result list previous 21 of next .
 home .
 browse .
 search .
 select .
 setting .
 alerts .
 help .
 about sciencedirect contact u terms conditions privacy policycopyright elsevier all right reserve .
 be a register trademark of elsevier .
 var hidediv collabboxcontent t .
 techniques commonly employ for aesthetic surgery be introduce into oncological treatment by the .
 when bilaterally perform mirror quadrantectomy they produce good final result and might improve oncological we start use oncoplastic surgery in 1994 and the technique be currently offer to about of patient .
 long-term oncological result be describe in this study .
 patient and method .
 this be a retrospective study on 61 woman affect by breast cancer suitable for breast conservation .
 size and position of the tumour if treat by conventional technique would have compromise final result .
 sixty-three cancer two bilateral have be remove from november 1994 to december .
 in all case we perform a bilateral breast reduction use inferior superior or combine pedicle all patient involve in the study be submit to a specific consent process and counsel regard advantage and limitation of oncoplastic operation .
 surgical methodology .
 during pre-operative planning we evaluate breast shape size degree of ptosis and the position of the lesion .
 tumour locate in the inferior pole of the breast be treat by a superior pedicle technique cancer in the upper pole or in the infero-lateral or infero-medial quadrant of the breast be excise with an inferior pedicle reduction .
 small and medium size breast irrespectively of tumour location require a periareolar or comma-shaped approach .
 table .
 population .
 of patients61 of cases63 mean .
 tumour size t1a2 t1b6 t1c28 t226 t3 t41 .
 receptor status er er pgr1 .
 histotype infiltrating ductal carcinoma58 infiltrating lobular carcinoma5 .
 grading g114 g235 g318 .
 nodal status n118 n22 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 operation be perform by a single oncoplastic surgeon without assistance of a specialist plastic surgeon .
 resection be accurately plan and final shape be assess intra-operatively and post-operatively with photographic examination figure 1 figure 2 figure 3 and figure .
 full-size image figure mirror quadrantectomy and inferior pedicle breast reduction pre-op .
 view within article .
 full-size image 25k figure mirror quadrantectomy and inferior pedicle breast reduction result .
 view within article .
 full-size image 26k figure mirror quadrantectomy and superior pedicle breast reduction pre-op .
 view within article .
 full-size image 23k figure mirror quadrantectomy and superior pedicle breast reduction result .
 view within article .
 once the specimen be remove and orient intra-operative gross-examination be perform by the pathologist to assure at least 1 cm of macroscopic complete .
 cavity margin be eventually re-excised and a second specimen with new orientation be send for permanent section .
 margin be consider free when there be no microscopic evidence of either in situ or invasive cancer within 2 mm from resection if this be infiltrate and intra-operatively excise new margin be free we do not indicate re-intervention .
 metallic clip be leave to improve identification of the tumour bed .
 following surgical treatment and chemotherapy if require all patient undergo radiation gy be deliver to the whole breast plus a boost of gy to the tumour bed .
 intra-operative radiotherapy be not employ in this series .
 oncological follow-up be perform with annual clinical examination bilateral mammography and blood test .
 when a clinical suspicion occur bone scan liver us scan chest x-ray and ct scan be employ to detect distant disease .
 result population .
 sixty-one woman two bilateral cancer undergo 63 mirror quadrantectomy .
 they be follow up for 68 month range 36 .
 median age be year 32 woman be post-menopausal .
 six patient have a positive family history of breast cancer with at least one first degree relative affect .
 case be subdivide accord to ptnm classification 8 be pt1a b 28 pt1c and 26 pt2 .
 we have a single case of pt4 detect at final pathological examination .
 the majority of patient be free of disease in the axilla 43 18 be pn1 and 2 pn2 .
 table .
 surgical technique .
 inferior pedicle27 superior pedicle9 comma shaped3 two-pedicles3 augmentation2 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 estrogen and progesterone receptor status be investigate 48 case be double positive 14 double negative er pgr .
 in only one case estrogen receptor be the only express receptor .
 hystopathological grade g1 be report in woman of the sample 35 be g2 18 g3 .
 oncological and surgical outcome .
 we obtain complete excision 2 mm free margin in of patient and mm margin in of the sample .
 in three case margin be 2 mm with negative intra-operative re-excision .
 two patient have dcis focus at the margin but also in this case intra-operative new margin be negative .
 no patient have a second general anaesthesia for re-excision of margin .
 no contra-lateral occult cancer be identify in the healthy breast specimen .
 we have a single case of local recurrence 37 month after surgical treatment .
 this woman receive far treatment with a second excision and be currently alive free of disease .
 five out of 61 patient deceased of metastatic breast cancer while one be currently alive with bone metastasis .
 we investigate the characteristic of patient with distant recurrence and we find a median age of 38 median survival from diagnosis of 36 month two patient have bilateral synchronous disease .
 four patient out of five be pt2 three estrogen receptor negative and two pn positive .
 for what concern complication we report five case of skin suffer and one case of partial nipple necrosis .
 they be treat with local dressing and nipple removal be never require .
 discussion local control affect survival .
 the original fisherian predicament of breast cancer as a metastatic disease from inception have be revise during the year .
 the trial in year follow-up demonstrate a small but significant decrease in death due to breast cancer in patient treat by lumpectomy and radiation compare to those who undergo lumpectomy alone .
 this subset also report a high local recurrence rate .
 this advantage be partially offset by mortality from other similar report be confirm by veronesi et who compare quadrantectomy radiation and find a slightly high although not significant mortality rate in node-positive patient who do not receive .
 further evidence be provide by the recent meta-analysis from the early breast cancer trialists cooperative group who report that a quarter of isolate recurrence will cause death from breast cancer that would not have happen otherwise after 15 year of .
 local control be a determinant of survival in a percentage of affect woman and large free margin of resection be recommend by the founder of breast conservative oncoplastic surgery allow wide excision and improve local control .
 the oncoplastic concept be based on the possibility of perform large resection accord to breast reduction technique .
 giacalone et compare resection margin of quadrantectomy to those of oncoplastic surgery and confirm that a mm free margin be obtain much frequently with this technique .
 this conclusion be in keep with those report by kaur et who also find that oncoplastic resection be associate with large volume of breast tissue excise and an increase rate of free margin .
 some other study report on a low close margin rate which be often low than the report in in series a far completion surgery be never require and we never observe focal involvement of margin .
 this be possibly due to intra-operative pathologic gross-examination follow by simultaneous resection to reach at least 1 cm of free in opinion secondary surgery should be avoid not only to prevent psychological complication but also because far excision after oncoplastic technique can become challenge .
 long-term follow-up .
 few study report on long-term oncological result of oncoplastic surgery .
 recently rietjens et in a series of 148 case with a median follow-up of 74 month report a rate of local recurrence after 5 a comparison be make with historical study on breast conservation such as the milan i trial that report a recurrence rate for tumour little than 1 specifically in this series the author didn't observe any local recurrence for lesion below 2 cm .
 rietjens also observe that local recurrence in pt2 pt3 after oncoplastic surgery reach a plateau after mastectomy in the milan i trial .
 this rate in the same study be constantly increase for conventional quadrantectomy even after year .
 this result although very interesting be not in accordance with those report by clough .
 he describe a 5 year local recurrence rate with a of involve .
 we have only one case of local recurrence in a lady who receive an inferior pedicle breast reduction for a t2 lobular carcinoma of the breast .
 this histopathology have a high likelihood of multi-focal behaviour and might have determine reappearance of disease .
 this lady be treat by far excision and she be currently alive free of disease .
 contra-lateral sampling and occult breast cancer .
 mirror quadrantectomy allow a sampling of the contra-lateral breast to detect any occult disease as suggest by petit in he report a of breast cancer in the specimen of contra-lateral breast reduction .
 this rate be confirm in a recent series of .
 in study no contra-lateral occult breast cancer be find probably because of the shortness of the sample .
 however opposite breast exploration be still in opinion an interesting opportunity to unveil occult contra-lateral disease .
 breast oncoplastic surgery limitation .
 although oncoplastic surgery provide rewarding symmetrical cosmetic outcome and it be likely to be prove as an effective oncological procedure it be currently far to become the gold standard of conservative treatment .
 several reason may explain this difficulty .
 first of all cosmetic procedure require a plastic surgery expertise that be not in the hand of much of the surgeon deal with breast cancer now-a-days .
 plastic surgeon on the other hand be culturally unaware of basic oncological skill .
 oncoplastic surgery be not only challenge it be also expensive and often double the time of conventional quadrantectomy .
 if generalized it be likely to dramatically increase wait list and to affect national health service indication should be restrict only to lesion size and location compromise acceptable cosmetic result .
 bilateral reduction for small cancer in large breast should be consider over-treatment unless an increase oncological effectiveness will be definitively demonstrate .
 finally complex glandular reshaping become a challenge for low-experienced breast radiotherapist and for breast radiologist deal with follow-up mammogram .
 thanks to multidisciplinary oncological approach we never experience difficulty in this field .
 conclusion .
 breast oncoplastic surgery in experience be a good tool to warrant local control of breast localized neo-plastic disease .
 it require a dedicate expertise and in opinion should be practiced only in multidisciplinary integrate cancer center .
 the mirror quadrantectomy model although extremely effective be not likely to become the standard of care and much efficient technique should be test .
 conflict of interest .
 all author declare no financial and personal relationship with other people or organisation that inappropriately influence bias work .
 acknowledgement .
 the author acknowledge miss paola tarro for cooperation in effective scientific writing .
 overdetection be the detection of cancer that would not have present clinically during a woman 's lifetime and therefore would not be diagnose in the absence of screening .
 several study have try to quantify overdetection of invasive breast cancer with mammography screening and estimate vary widely .
 we need valid and precise estimate of the magnitude of overdetection attributable to mammography screening to inform public-health policy clinical practice and decision-making for woman participate in screening .
 although overdetection of both invasive cancer and ductal carcinoma in situ be possible in this paper we focus on invasive breast cancer .
 full-size image 62k high-quality image 348k figure mammography screening have reduce death from breast cancer .
 aj photo science photo library .
 view within article .
 we do a systematic review of all paper with estimate of overdetection of invasive breast cancer in mammography screening to identify how in what direction and to what extent different study method and bias might affect estimate of overdetection .
 method to estimate overdetection of invasive breast cancer by mammography screening .
 there be three broad approach to the estimation of overdetection the incidence-rate method the cumulative-incidence method and model approach .
 the first two design can be conceptualised as follow .
 imagine a group of woman who start screen and continue be screen biennially for year and a second group of woman of the same age who be not screen over the same time period .
 ideally this group would be form by randomisation to ensure similarity of breast-cancer risk .
 assuming similar underlie risk of breast cancer in this two group the effect of screening on incidence can be validly estimate by compare the screen and unscreened group in term of average annual incidence or cumulative incidence figure 2 .
 full-size image 62k high-quality image 418k figure effect of biennial screening of woman age 68 year on incidence of invasive breast cancer in the absence of overdetection based on hypothetical datum all woman who undergo screening do so in the same year .
 incidence rate a and cumulative incidence b be high in the screen population than in the unscreened population because of lead-time effect .
 arrow show incidence without screening plus incidence of prevalent cancer detect early by screening lead-time of prevalent cancer .
 arrowhead show incidence without screening plus incidence of incident cancer detect early by screening lead-time of incident cancer .
 view within article .
 in the absence of overdetection the incidence in the screen and unscreened group will be the same once the effect of lead-timethe length of time diagnosis be advance by screeningis account for .
 figure 2a show a large increase in incidence in the screen group when the first screening round occur lead-time of prevalent cancer .
 this increase extend into the second and third screening round because of the little than perfect sensitivity of screening .
 incidence at subsequent round be also increase by lead-time because cancer that might have present clinically in the future be detect early by screening lead-time of incident cancer .
 lead time therefore ensure that on average incidence rate in the screen group be high than in the unscreened group .
 after screening stop at 68 year of age a compensatory dip in incidence occur in the screen group .
 this dip be because cancer that would have be diagnose in this year have already be detect early by screening and so incidence appear low for a few year .
 figure 2a assume biennial screening and that all screen woman be screen in the same year .
 the sawtooth pattern be not see in practice and the incidence at each age would be little high in screen than unscreened woman .
 lead-time also ensure that cumulative incidence be typically high in screen than in unscreened group during the screening period figure 2b .
 eventually at some point in time after screening stop the cumulative incidence of breast cancer in the screen and unscreened group will equalise .
 therefore a valid comparison of cumulative incidence in screen and unscreened group should not be make until several year after screening stop .
 incidence-rate method .
 investigator can compare the average annual incidence of breast cancer in a specify age group over a certain period in screen woman with that in unscreened woman of the same age .
 when overdetection be not present figure 2 the difference in incidence will be solely due to lead time .
 however increase incidence in the screen group after adjustment for lead time show overdetection figure 3 .
 full-size image 63k high-quality image 419k figure effect of biennial screening of woman age 68 year on incidence of invasive breast cancer in the presence of overdetection based on hypothetical datum all woman who undergo screening do so in the same year .
 incidence rate a and cumulative incidence b be high in the screen population than in the unscreened population because of lead-time effect and overdetection .
 arrow show incidence without screening plus incidence of prevalent cancer detect early by screening lead-time of prevalent cancer plus incidence of overdetected prevalent cancer .
 arrowhead show incidence without screening plus incidence of incident cancer detect early by screening lead-time of incident cancer plus incidence of overdetected incident cancer .
 view within article .
 the incidence in screen woman be simply observe in the screen population .
 the incidence rate in unscreened woman can be observe as in the control group of a randomised trial or it can be estimate on the basis of the incidence before screening or in other population not offer screening .
 overdetection be any excess in incidence once lead-time be account for .
 lead-time be account for by exclude the early screening round and compare the incidence rate in screen woman with the incidence rate in unscreened woman once a screening programme be well establish and therefore remove much of the lead-time due to early detection of prevalent cancer and by also include an adjustment for age-specific lead time and therefore account for lead-time of incident cancer figure 3 .
 this latter component of lead-time can be account for simply by compare the incidence rate in screen woman with that in unscreened woman who be a few year old .
 excluding the initial round will however also exclude prevalent cancer that be never destine to become clinically relevant figure 3 and this approach will therefore produce low estimate of overdetection even if apply perfectly and without any of the bias describe in this paper .
 because of this intractable problem the cumulative-incidence method be theoretically the well method for the estimation of overdetection .
 cumulative-incidence method .
 in this method the cumulative incidence among a group of woman who be screen for example from age year to 68 year be compare with the cumulative incidence in an unscreened group over the same time period .
 because the incidence rate of breast cancer dip in the several year after screening stop due to the lead-time effect of screening figure 2 the surveillance of breast cancer in both group should continue for at least several year after screening end .
 if there be no overdetection the cumulative incidence after this time will be identical in the two group .
 if there be overdetection due to screening there will be an excess of case of breast cancer in the screen group compare with the unscreened group after this time figure 3 .
 as with the incidence-rate method the cumulative incidence in the unscreened population can be observe or estimate .
 this method will include any overdetection associate with both prevalent cancer in initial screening round and incident cancer in subsequent round .
 for this reason the cumulative-incidence method be theoretically a much robust method for the estimation of overdetection than the incidence-rate method .
 modelling of disease transition .
 some investigator have use a third option based on model of disease transition .
 model can range from simple involve only a few disease state and transition probability to complex use many disease stage and state and many transitional probability eg the computer programme miscan2 or other microsimulation model where the natural history of breast cancer be model .
 in all such modelling approach there be a trade off between the complexity transparency and validity of the model and result .
 for example simple model require fewer assumption have fewer datum requirement and may be much transparent however simplicity may lead to inadequate representation of the true datum .
 although complex model can much accurately capture true disease process they be generally much little transparent .
 because of this lack of transparency it be hard to assess whether they be prone to the bias discuss below .
 we therefore will only assess the incidence rate and cumulative-incidence method in this paper .
 methodological issue and potential source of bias in estimate of overdetection .
 each method can be biased such that the estimate of overdetection can be too high or too low .
 there be optimum method that should be use to address each of the follow issue if bias in the estimation of overdetection be to be avoid table 1 .
 table .
 methodological issue and bias affect estimate of overdetection .
 methodological issue or bias affect estimate of overdetectionmethod s affectedeffect on estimate of overdetection if not correctedoptimum solution different breast-cancer risk in screen and unscreened populationbothestimate may be too high or too lowbreast cancer risk should be the same in screen and unscreened population low participation in screening group and high participation in non-screening groupbothestimate too lowparticipation in screen population should be high and screening in unscreened population should be low offering screening to the control group before or during follow-upbothestimate too lowcontrol group should not be offer screening before or during long-term follow-up inappropriate adjustment for lead-timecumulative incidenceestimate too highlong follow-up after last screen at least 5 year or a statistical or numerical adjustment for lead-time incidence rateestimate may be too high or too lowinitial screening round should be exclude and there should be a statistical or numerical adjustment for lead-time .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 breast-cancer risk .
 screened and unscreened population should have the same underlie risk of breast cancer .
 this be well achieve by use datum from randomised trial .
 if trial datum be unavailable and observational datum be use adjustment for difference in underlie risk between screen and unscreened population may be make on the basis of know risk factor .
 if datum be derived from non-concurrent screen and unscreened population an adjustment for secular change time trend in breast-cancer risk may also be need for example to deal with change in breast cancer incidence that might occur due to increase use of hormone replacement therapy .
 the estimate of overdetection might be either too high or too low depending on the adjustment make .
 participation in screening contamination of intervention and control group if fewer than of the woman in the population offer screening actually participate or if some degree of screening occur in the unscreened group then the estimate of overdetection will be too low because of drop-ins to screening from the unscreened group and drop-out from screening in the screen group .
 if the unscreened control group be offer screening at the end of a trial or during an observational study the incidence in the control group will be spuriously raise and the overdetection estimate will be too low .
 if the cumulative-incidence method be use there should ideally be long follow-up after the last screen .
 if the control group be offer screening before or during this follow-up period the estimate of overdetection will be too low .
 consideration of lead-time .
 inappropriate adjustment for lead-time can result in an estimate that be either too high or too low depending on whether lead-time be underadjusted or overadjusted .
 if the cumulative-incidence method be use adjustment for lead-time be not necessary if there be sufficient follow-up after the last screen for example 5 year or much to allow for the decrease in incidence that be observe once screen stop .
 if there be little or no follow-up after the last screen there will be lead-time bias that should be adjust for with statistical method otherwise the estimate of overdetection will be too high .
 as note above if the incidence-rate method be use the initial screening round should be exclude and adjustment for lead-time should be make to account for lead-time among incident cancer detect in subsequent screening round .
 method search strategy and selection criterion .
 primary research and review article that attempt to estimate overdetection of invasive breast cancer by mammography screening publish in english in peer-reviewed journal be eligible for inclusion in the systematic review .
 we restrict the review to paper that provide estimate of breast cancer incidence in screen and unscreened group and from which we be able to assess whether and to what extent the result might have be affect by bias .
 we search medline from to dec 1 by explode the mesh term breast neoplasm .
 additional word use for the text search be screening overdiagnosis or over-diagnosis or overdetection or over-detection .
 this search strategy yield 261 report .
 we also search reference list of publish review and primary study this strategy yield five additional report .
 study assessment and datum extraction .
 one reviewer cb assess all abstract of the report identify by the search 253 study do not meet the inclusion criterion .
 for all 13 abstract deem possibly relevant the full paper be independently review by two of three reviewer to decide on inclusion cb and either nh or li .
 data on study design source of screen and unscreened population time period of screening participation in screening in the screen population and degree of screening in the unscreened population duration of screening duration of follow-up after screening end the method to calculate overdetection and estimate of overdetection be extract from each study by two of three reviewer cb nh kh independently .
 we also assess presence of source of bias table 1 that might have affect the report estimate of overdetection .
 difference be resolve by consensus or if necessary review by another reviewer li .
 to facilitate comparison across study we also define a standard measure of overdetection calculate as follow result .
 we include two review and six primary study in systematic review figure 4 .
 the two review provide estimate of overdetection use datum from all of the eight3 or six of the eight4 publish randomised control trial of mammography screening table 2 .
 of the six primary study two study report two estimate each based on different datum sources9 or different time the remain four primary study report one estimate of overdetection each so eight estimate of overdetection be obtain in total from the six primary study table 2 .
 thus in total we obtain 22 estimate of overdetection from several some overlap datum source .
 full-size image 21k high-quality image 172k figure study selection for inclusion in this review .
 view within article .
 table .
 method and datum source use by eight randomised control trial of mammography screening 22 estimate of overdetection studystudy designperiod of screeningref cumulative-incidence method six study 18 estimate review3 malmrct1976 86 canada 85 canada 85 stockholmrct1981 86 gothenburgrct1982 91 two countyrct1977 84 health insurance planrct1963 edinburghrct1978 88 review4 malmrct1976 86 canada 85 canada 85 stockholmrct1981 86 gothenburgrct1982 91 two countyrct1977 84 primary study zackrisson et al sweden rct1976 865 peeters et al netherlands population-based programme1975 866 paci et al italy population-based 997 paci et al italy population-based programme1991 incidence-rate method two study four estimate primary study zahl et al sweden population-based programme1986 zahl et al norway population-based programme1996 jonsson et al sweden population-based programme1986 jonsson et al sweden population-based programme1986 .
 full-size table .
 control trial .
 view within article .
 both review and four of the primary study use the cumulative-incidence method .
 two primary study apply the incidence-rate method table 2 .
 in all study the incidence rate or the cumulative incidence of invasive breast cancer in the screen population be obtain from either the intervention group of a randomised trial or the population invite to a screening programme .
 estimate of incidence in the unscreened population be much complicate to obtain and we use diverse method incidence in the control group of a randomised control incidence in a control population without a screening programme during the same time period as screening be offer to another population and with demonstrate similar underlie breast cancer incidence in a control population before implementation of a screening programme with adjustment for change in breast cancer incidence over time and different age distribution to adjust for a different underlie risk of breast cancer in the control and screen and incidence in a control population before implementation of a screening programme without adjustment for change in breast cancer incidence over time or different age investigator in seven study calculate overdetection as the incidence in the screen population divide by the incidence in the unscreened population relative risk .
 moss3 calculate overdetection as the incidence in the screen population minus the incidence in the unscreened population absolute risk difference .
 because of the variation in the calculation of overdetection estimate we recalculated a standard estimate of overdetection from the datum report in each paper as describe in the method .
 in report result we focus on comparison of this standard estimate .
 few study use optimum method for deal with each of the methodological issue we identify and therefore bias be common almost universal in the study table 3 .
 we have try to assess the possible direction of bias in the calculation of overdetection but estimation of the net effect be commonly difficult if there be both upward and downward bias in the same study .
 much commonly author deal poorly with lead-time 16 of 22 overdetection estimate be affect .
 in many study bias create by non-participation in screening among screen population and participation in screening among control population be not acknowledge 14 of 22 estimate be affect .
 table .
 presence of methodological issue and bias affect estimate of overdetection in include study .
 methodological issue or bias affect estimate of overdetectionnumber of affect estimate number of affect estimate number affect estimate report in primary studiestotal number of affect estimate cumulative-incidence method incidence-rate method different breast-cancer risk in screen and unscreened of 22 low participation in screening group and high participation in non- screening group534214 of 22 offering screening to the control group before or during of 22 inappropriate adjustment for lead-time cumulative incidence 661na13 of 18 inappropriate adjustment for lead-time incidence rate nanana33 of 4 full-size table .
 applicable .
 data from reference .
 data from reference .
 view within article .
 there be three estimate of overdetection based on datum from the malm trial moss3 gtzsche4 and zackrisson and co-workers5 7 table 4 .
 clearly the estimate by moss and gtzsche be much high .
 the main reason that estimate seem high might be that this author do not adequately deal with lead-time they do not use at least 5 year of follow-up datum after screening end and they therefore need to statistically adjust for lead-time but do not do so .
 as a result estimate be biased upwards .
 gtzsche 's estimate be also high because he include both invasive cancer and ductal carcinoma in situ dcis .
 zackrisson and co-worker calculate overdetection on the basis of incidence many year after screening in the intervention group end and therefore adequately account for lead-time therefore of the three this be the little biased estimate table 4 .
 all three estimate however will be biased downward by the effect of little than participation in screening by woman offer screening and some screening of woman in the control group .
 table .
 assessment of methodological issue and bias affect estimate of overdetection in study use the cumulative-incidence method .
 studysimilar breast- cancer risk in screen and unscreened groupsparticipation in screening or screening in unscreened population group be not screen at end of studyappropriate consideration of lead-timeage group yearsoverdetection estimate as report ci overdetection estimate as recalculatedref follow-up after screening end 5 yearsadjustment make for lead-timeno inclusion of initial screen malmyn yn n na45 69ard per woman years2363 malmyn yn n na45 69rr 132 117 149 canada 49ard to per woman years713 canada 1yyyn n 49rr 113 canada 59ard to per woman years173 canada 2yyyn n 59rr 126 144 2594 stockholmyn n n n 64ard per woman years473 stockholmyn yn n 64rr 149 123 gothenburgyn n n n na39 59ard to per woman gothenburgyn yn n na39 49rr 113 141 two countyyyn n n 74ard to per woman years513 two countyyyyn n 74rr 133 122 145 3284 health insurance planyn yn n 64ard to per woman years463 edinburghn n yn n na45 64ard to per woman years573 zackrisson et al sweden yn yynana45 54rr 117 69rr 118 69rr 117 peeters et al netherlands yn yn n na35 44rr 54rr 64rr 65rr 35rr paci et al italy n n 84rr paci et al italy n n 54rr 74855 59rr 94 64rr 96 69rr 111 74rr 115 74rr 46 .
 full-size table .
 issue be account for y not account for n or not applicable na .
 arrow indicate underestimation or overestimation of overdetection .
 risk difference .
 risk .
 estimate calculate based on all breast cancer include dcis in screen and unscreened woman .
 least biased estimate .
 view within article .
 both moss and gtzsche estimate overdetection in the canadian trial table 4 .
 this trial do not offer screening to the control group at the end of the intervention period and do report incidence for much than 5 year afterwards .
 they be therefore good source of datum for the estimation of overdetection .
 the estimate by gtzsche based on this trial be biased however because he compare incidence soon after the end of the intervention period without accounting for lead-time in any way .
 estimate and be therefore biased upwards .
 moss use the datum appropriately and estimate avoid lead-time bias and be much low and for woman age 49 year and 59 year respectively table 4 .
 moss and gtzsche both use datum from the stockholm gothenburg and two county trial table 4 .
 this trial be difficult to use for the estimation of overdetection because people in the control group be offer screening at the end of the intervention period .
 moss 's estimate be biased downward because she do not acknowledge this problem and calculate overdetection after the control group be offer screening .
 gtzsche avoid this problem by compare incidence before the screen offer to the control group .
 however by do so he introduce the problem of use datum without adequate duration of follow-up and because he do not adjust for lead-time estimate be also seriously flawed overestimate .
 moss but not gtzsche also calculate overdetection estimate on datum from the health insurance plan hip trial in great new york usa and the edinburgh trial in the uk .
 the overdetection estimate be in woman age 64 year for the hip trial and in woman age 45 69 year for the edinburgh trial .
 although long-term follow-up datum for the hip trial be available moss based estimate on incidence about 15 year after the end of screening and therefore this estimate be biased upwards by insufficient duration of follow-up and no adjustment for lead-time but also downward by non-participation in the intervention group and screening in the control group .
 the net effect of this two bias be probably overestimation of overdetection .
 if moss have use incidence datum after long follow-up which have be report by the hip investigator estimate would be low .
 with respect to the edinburgh trial the underlie breast-cancer risk in the control and intervention group be probably and therefore any estimate of overdetection based on this trial be unreliable .
 peeters and colleagues6 calculate overdetection 12 year after the start of a screening programme in nijmegen the netherlands .
 the control population be woman of age 35 year in a neighbouring city during the same time period .
 screened and unscreened group have similar underlie breast-cancer risk .
 the overdetection estimate which include dcis be and for woman age 35 44 45 54 55 64 and 65 year at onset of screening respectively .
 the combine overdetection estimate for woman 35 year be .
 inclusion of dcis and the insufficient duration of follow-up after screening cease with no adjustment for lead-time mean that this estimate be likely to be biased upwards .
 however they be also likely to be biased downward by non-participation in the screen population and occurrence of screening in the control population .
 paci and co-worker have report two estimate of overdetection year after the start of screening programme in italy .
 the overdetection estimate be and for woman age 84 years6 and 74 respectively .
 this estimate have be adjust for lead-time however they be likely to be biased downward by non-participation in the screen population and occurrence of screening in the control population .
 non-participation be very substantial in at least one of this such that within the screen population only of cancer be detect by screening and be cancer that present clinically .
 furthermore there may be bias in an unknown direction due to difference in underlie breast-cancer risk between the screen and control population population before implementation of screening programme .
 there be no estimate use the incidence-rate method apply to the datum from the randomised control trial .
 two primary observational study report an overdetection estimate use the incidence-rate method table 5 .
 the little biased of this study be that by jonsson and which be based on datum from the breast screening programme that be gradually introduce in sweden from 1986 and be fully establish by 1996 .
 jonsson and colleague calculate overdetection at two time point at the first screen initial phase and 7 year after the first screen stabilised phase .
 the overdetection estimate after adjustment for lead time be and initial phase and and stabilised phase for age group 49 59 69 and 74 year respectively .
 the estimate calculate during the initial phase be high due to inclusion of cancer detect in the initial screening round .
 the stabilised phase estimate be little biased by lead-time because initial screen have be exclude but this will also exclude some overdetected cancer potentially lead to underestimation of overdetection .
 table .
 assessment of methodological issue and bias affect estimate of overdetection in include study use the incidence rate method .
 studysimilar breast- cancer risk in screen and unscreened groupsparticipation in screening or screening in unscreened population group be not screen at end of studyappropriate consideration of lead-timeage group yearsoverdetection estimate as report rr ci overdetection estimate as recalculatedref follow-up after screening end 5 yearsadjustment make for lead timeno inclusion of initial screen zahl et al sweden n n ynan 69145 141 149 175 12 zahl et al norway n n ynan n 69156 142 173 112 11 jonsson et al sweden n yynayn 49122 151 59154 134 178 69162 143 184 74184 224 84 jonsson et al sweden n 121 59154 133 179 69121 141 3 full-size table .
 issue be account for y not account for n or not applicable na .
 arrow indicate underestimation or overestimation of overdetection .
 least biased estimate .
 risk .
 view within article .
 the overdetection estimate calculate by zahl and also use the swedish breast-screening programme datum be for woman age 69 year .
 the annual incidence in the screen population be estimate during 1997 and the number of woman undergo initial screening round appear to be negligible in this period .
 zahl and co-worker do not adjust for lead-time and calculate annual incidence in the control population 15 year before screening commence without adjustment for change in breast-cancer incidence over time .
 thus this overdetection estimate be overestimate .
 zahl and co-workers9 also calculate overdetection in a screening programme in norway .
 the overdetection estimate be for woman age 69 year .
 as with the swedish comparison this estimate be biased by no adjustment for lead-time and no adjustment for change in incidence in the control population over time .
 as the comparison be make when many woman be undergo initial screening round this estimate might be too high due to inclusion of cancer detect in the initial screening round .
 zahl and co-worker also claim that there be no reduction in breast cancer incidence in woman old than 69 year of age .
 however the lack of reduction might be account for by some screening in the woman age 74 year and the fact that woman would not have have sufficient time for several screening round before they reach 69 year of age .
 discussion .
 we have identify and describe four important bias that might affect estimate of overdetection of invasive breast cancer substantially .
 this be underlie breast cancer risk be different in screen and unscreened population little than participation in screening in the screen population and occurrence of screening in the unscreened population screening in the control group after the end of the intervention screening period and inadequate allowance for lead-time table 1 .
 we have not see this bias or consequence discuss adequately in paper address the issue of overdetection of invasive breast cancer .
 researchers need to consider them when estimate overdetection and discuss result in light of them .
 we identify eight publication that fulfil inclusion criterion .
 on the basis of recalculated estimate of overdetection report estimate of overdetection range from to .
 in this study however bias be common and we suggest that the different method use and the different type and degree of bias affect this method explain much of the variability .
 because there be few valid estimate and they show such heterogeneity we do not attempt to calculate a pool estimate .
 the theoretically much robust method to estimate overdetection be the cumulative-incidence approach with datum from a randomised control trial in which there be much than several year of follow-up after screening stop and the control group be never screen .
 zackrisson and co-workers5 and moss3 canadian trial only be the only author to use this method .
 zackrisson and co-worker estimate be age 45 54 year and age 55 69 year moss 's estimate be age 49 and age 59 .
 the incidence-rate method with adjustment for lead-time and exclusion of cancer detect in the initial screening round may also result in a valid overdetection estimate .
 however estimate can be biased downward somewhat by the omission of initial screening round .
 the study use the incidence-rate method be all based on screening implementation and be therefore observational study rather than randomised trial raise the possibility that bias may arise because of dissimilar underlie breast-cancer risk in the screen and unscreened population .
 the study by jonsson and based on datum 7 year and onwards after the initial screening round be the little affect by bias .
 the estimate of overdetection from this study be age 49 year age 59 year age 69 year age 74 year .
 apart from the estimate provide here we note that several group have estimate overdetection with disease-transition modelling and have obtain low we do not include this study in review as they do not provide estimate of breast-cancer incidence separately in screen and unscreened population .
 additionally as discuss in the introduction understand the implication for model output of the implicit and explicit assumption and process at each step of the model process can be difficult .
 therefore we not assess whether and to what extent the overdetection estimate be affect by the bias that we have identify and outline .
 duffy and co-workers12 apply a disease transition model approach to calculate overdetection from datum of the swedish two county and gothenburg trial .
 for the two county trial overdetection estimate be ci for the first screen for the second screen and for the third screen in woman age 74 year .
 for the gothenburg trial overdetection estimate be 288 for the first screen for the second screen and for the third screen in woman age 39 59 year .
 olsen and colleagues13 apply a similar modelling approach to calculate overdetection from datum of the copenhagen screening programme in denmark .
 reported overdetection estimate be 265 for the first screen and 21 for the second screen in woman age 69 year .
 both group use a winbugs model14 that do not generate estimate of incidence in screen and unscreened population and therefore it be not possible to recalculate overdetection estimate accord to definition .
 one other paper we have exclude be that by svendsen and who assess whether the age-standardised annual invasive breast cancer incidence in the screen population of the copenhagen screening programme in denmark be within the confidence interval of the project incidence that be estimate on the population before screening and in county without a screening programme .
 no overdetection estimate be report and we be unable to calculate them .
 svendsen and co-worker conclude that from the second screening round and onwards the incidence of invasive breast cancer in the screen population be within the ci of the project incidence in the absence of screening and they conclude therefore that there be no evidence of overdetection .
 we conclude that the little biased estimate of overdetection report so far be those of zackrisson and co-workers5 and based on the canadian trial and jonsson and .
 this estimate range from to for woman age 49 year to for woman age 59 year and to for woman age 69 year .
 the old trial datum tend to provide low estimate whereas the much recent observational datum provide by jonsson and colleague tend towards high estimate .
 although such difference in estimate be attributed largely to study method the sensitivity of mammography screening both for cancer that will progress and overdetected cancer may have increase with improvement in technology over this hypothesis be consistent with recent datum from the breastscreen new south wales programme in australia that suggest that although cancer detection rate with screening be increase with time ie improve sensitivity the interval cancer rate be not as there be no far trial of mammography screening in woman over age year in progress future estimate of overdetection will need to be based on observational datum from breast-screening programme .
 this estimate must be make use method that address and avoid the bias describe in this paper .
 the cumulative-incidence method use datum from a randomised control trial and long last follow-up be a theoretically much desirable method .
 however it seem much unlikely that much randomised trial will be do .
 so this design can only be implement for the few trial in which the control group be not screen after the end of the screening intervention .
 this may be possible although it seem likely that many of those woman would by now have undergo screening provide in programme subsequently implement in those country .
 the incidence-rate method be likely to be much practical to apply to datum from current screening programme as it have the advantage of not require a long duration of follow-up .
 valid and reliable estimate might still be generate with this method provide the bias identify in this paper be adequately address .
 on the basis of review there be inadequate high quality evidence about overdetection of invasive breast cancer by screening mammography .
 all the estimate publish to date be biased and much be affect by multiple source of bias .
 the range of good estimate be from to for woman age 49 year to for woman age 59 year and to for woman age 69 year .
 new study with well attention to method be urgently need to quantify the true extent of overdetection in mammography screening programme .
 conflict of interest .
 the author declare no conflict of interest .
 acknowledgment .
 the author thank professor bruce armstrong for comment on draft of this manuscript .
 this study be support by the australian national health and medical research council program grant and for the screening and test evaluation progra .
 with the widespread of screening mammography much and much asymptomatic benign lesion be discover and require specific management when diagnose on biopsy .
 in case of atypical lesion current recommendation involve excisional biopsy to rule out ductal carcinoma in situ and or invasive carcinoma .
 relatively few study each with a limited number of case have investigate the risk of carcinoma in patient with a diagnosis of papilloma of the breast make on ultrasound or vacuum-assisted biopsy .
 we conduct this study to quantify the risk and investigate the factor associate to the risk of cancer in patient with papilloma .
 patient and method patient .
 a retrospective review of datum record from january through march show papillary lesion in patient who undergo surgery in the department of gynecology and obstetrics at tenon hospital .
 several clinical history be distinguish because the inclusion criterion be a papilloma lesion diagnose on a histological report preoperative or surgical .
 the patient be separate into patient with preoperative histology and patient without a preoperative histology .
 much patient with papilloma diagnose on preoperative histology have be referred for mammographic screening .
 nipple discharge be the main clinical symptom in patient without preoperative histology .
 the mean patient age be 52 year range year .
 clinically only 2 patient have palpable lesion and 59 patient present with nipple discharge .
 benign papilloma have be identify by preoperative biopsy in 48 case by ductography in 34 case and by cytology in 7 case .
 result from surgical excision be available for all patient .
 table .
 summary of the initial finding of the patient diagnose with papilloma .
 full-size table .
 n normal .
 view within article .
 imaging .
 bilateral two-views mammography craniocaudal and mediolateral oblique be perform in all patient .
 ultrasonography be perform by the radiologist in case of dense breast or abnormality detect on the mammogram .
 it be systematic in case of symptomatic patient .
 complementary ductography be indicate when a spontaneous unilateral and uniductal nipple discharge be present .
 it be perform by injection of contrast medium through a 26 gauge cannula insert into the pathologic duct .
 craniocaudal and lateral view be obtain .
 then spot compression magnification view be realize on the area of concern .
 papilloma be suspect when a regular intraluminar-filling defect be find .
 information regard the radial location and depth of any abnormality be collect .
 lesion size be based on the great lesion dimension mass or cluster of calcification on imaging use sonography size for much patient or use mammography if the lesion be a single cluster of calcification .
 biopsy of mass identify on ultrasonography be perform under sonographic guidance use a 14 gauge automate needle bard usa .
 biopsy of microcalcifications be perform under stereotactic guidance use 11 gauge vacuum-assisted biopsy vab probe mammotome biopsy ethicon endo-surgery or a gauge handheld vacuum-assisted biopsy probe bard usa .
 in case of total excision of the targeted lesion a localize clip be place micromark biopsy ethicon endo-surgery .
 stereotactic sampling of microcalcifications be verify routinely with specimen x-ray .
 for each lesion the imaging-histologic result concordance be discuss by the radiologist the pathologist and the physician .
 result be categorize as isolate benign papilloma atypical papilloma papilloma associate with high-risk lesion such as atypical ductal hyperplasia adh atypical lobular hyperplasia alh lobular carcinoma in situ lcis with malignancy such as ductal carcinoma in situ dcis or invasive ductal carcinoma idc or with benign lesion such as fibrocystic mastosis and other benign lesion .
 statistical analysis .
 operative report be obtain for all patient .
 the technique of the surgery be record with the histology of any abnormal breast tissue .
 all patient with papillary lesion be operate on and definitive histology be compare to preoperative diagnosis .
 factor associate with underestimation of malignancy be evaluate in a univariate analysis chi-square test or student 's t-test and a multivariate analysis logistic regression analysis .
 result preoperative finding .
 the diagnostic histologic and imaging finding in the patient with papilloma on pathologic report be give in table .
 the preoperative histology 21 vab and 42 microbiopsies with ultrasonic guidance be available for 63 patient and be as follow 48 benign papilloma 8 mastosis and benign lesion 3 papilloma associate to atypia 2 papilloma associate to carcinoma in situ and 2 papilloma associate to invasive carcinoma .
 table .
 summary of histologic finding at core biopsy and surgical excision .
 histology at core biopsyhistology at surgical excision typical papillomabenign lesionpapilloma with atypiacarcinoma in situ dcis clis invasive carcinomatotal typical 3 3 148 benign lesion88 papilloma with atypia1a1a 1 1a3 carcinoma in situ1a1a 1 2 invasive carcinoma1a 1 1a2 .
 total38949363 .
 full-size table .
 a associated to papilloma .
 view within article .
 mammography be normal in 42 case and show microcalcifications in 25 case and mass in 66 case .
 ultrasound be perform in all case and confirm the mammographic finding .
 only 42 lesion be evaluate with ductography .
 the sign suggestive of papilloma be present in 34 case .
 two patient have a palpable mass at diagnosis and for 59 patient the clinical symptom be a nipple discharge .
 it be bloody in case and serous in 29 case .
 nipple discharge have be analyzed for patient who need ductography and show sign of papilloma in 7 case .
 histology of the operative specimen .
 surgical excision be perform on the basis of diagnosis of suspect papilloma either clinical and or histologic and or radiographic clinical and radiographic diagnosis in 67 patient and biopsy in 63 patient .
 the histopathologic finding of the surgically excise lesion reveal benign papilloma in 84 patient atypical papilloma in 3 patient mastosis and benign lesion in patient adh in 3 patient alh in 3 patient lcis in 3 patient dcis in 11 patient and idc in 3 patient .
 only 63 patient have core biopsy prior to surgery .
 correlation between histological preoperative diagnosis and histological result on operative specimen be report in table malignancy be find on final histology in 2 of 3 patient with initial atypia as well as in 4 of 48 patient with initial diagnosis of benign papilloma p fisher 's exact test .
 of the 63 patient who have biopsy prior to surgery residual lesion not be find in 4 case and be presume to have be entirely excise at core biopsy .
 thirty of the 48 lesion diagnose as papilloma at core biopsy be papilloma at surgical excision 3 be atypical lesion 8 be mastosis 6 be dcis or lcis and 1 be idc .
 eight lesion diagnose as benign at core biopsy prove to be papilloma at surgery .
 one lesion originally diagnose as atypical papilloma at core biopsy prove to be dcis at excision .
 another lesion of papilloma associate to adh at core biopsy be find to be idc at excision .
 risk factor for malignancy .
 we analyzed risk factor for malignancy associate with papilloma firstly on the whole population then secondly on patient with preoperative histological diagnosis of typical papilloma .
 in the whole population no patient age little than year be find to have carcinoma on final pathology .
 in contrast of the 78 patient age much than year 14 patient have carcinoma on final excisional pathology p .
 nipple discharge and presence of microcalcifications be also find to be relate to risk of malignancy p and respectively .
 in the multivariate analysis there be a significant relationship between the presence of malignancy at excision and the age continuous variable as well as with the presence of microcalcifications p and respectively .
 the other factor study show no significant difference .
 in patient with atypical papilloma diagnose by preoperative histology no malignancy be present on surgical specimen in the 23 patient age little than year versus 4 case in patient age much than year p fisher 's exact test .
 the other factor study nipple discharge microcalcifications mass show no significant difference .
 table .
 risk factor for malignancy associate with papilloma .
 benign n 116 malignant n 14 rr univariate analysisphrp age years6414 .
 nipple discharge no867 .
 microcalcifications 55 no987 .
 mass no617 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 discussion finding .
 papillary lesion of the breast be much often encounter with the widespread use of core biopsy in the initial diagnosis of mammographic and or sonographic lesion .
 as malignancy may be underdiagnosed much team recommend excision of the papilloma .
 study be among the large study concern surgical excision of papillary lesion .
 we report that preinvasive and or invasive carcinoma be find in of case of isolate papilloma diagnose on preoperative exam and that malignancy be associate with papilloma in of case .
 age of much than year and microcalcifications be associate with a high risk of malignancy on definitive histology .
 table .
 papillary lesion diagnose with core biopsy and surgically excise summary of the literature compare to study .
 author and reference numbernumber of patient surgically excise for papillomaafindings at surgical excision benign malignant liberman et philpotts et puglisi et renshaw et mercado et sydnor et study513912 .
 full-size table .
 a papilloma with and without atypia .
 view within article .
 papilloma be find in the lactiferous duct of the breast and be compose of fibrovascular layer myoepithelial layer and epithelial layer .
 they be much often find in woman between and year they may be identify only microscopically or may be extensively sclerotic and some may demonstrate feature of atypia .
 tissue diagnosis be require since atypical hyperplasia or carcinoma may be present in the same way .
 papilloma be the much common cause of significant nipple ductography be helpful to confirm the suspect diagnosis in case of nipple discharge with normal mammographic and sonographic imaging .
 impact of radiology .
 in the century mastectomy and then segmentectomy be the treatment of choice for bloody nipple discharge .
 radiologist begin percutaneous imaging-guided histologic needle sampling of the breast in the late this procedure be follow by the development of vacuum-assisted in 1999 liberman et conclude in a study include 19 case that percutaneously diagnose benign intraductal lesion no long require open surgical in another study concern benign histologic finding philpotts et show the importance of surgical excision only if discordance between radiography and histology the treatment of atypical hyperplasia diagnose at core biopsy be describe as require surgical excision to exclude an underestimate cancer .
 the treatment of papilloma diagnose at core biopsy seem much few case of malignant upgrade lesion at surgery and of patient be report in 2 small study concern surgical excision and comparison to initial biopsy in a recent study include papilloma and benign papillary lesion at core biopsy mercado et find of patient with atypical ductal hyperplasia or dcis at surgery and recommend surgery for patient with papilloma on sydnor et show in a study that the underestimation rate in benign papilloma be of and that the underestimation of carcinoma be not significantly relate neither to needle type nor to number of other study report high risk of underestimation of invasive carcinoma and indicate surgical excision for papillary lesion diagnose on in study among the 48 patient with initial diagnosis of papilloma atypia be find in of patient lcis in of patient and malignancy dcis and invasive carcinoma in of patient .
 this contradict report emphasize the need for determine risk factor for underestimation .
 risk factor for malignancy .
 renshaw et as well as page et find in study a high risk of underestimation of malignancy when atypical papilloma or atypia associate to papilloma be find on initial core needle in study we test the age of much than year and the presence of nipple discharge microcalcifications or mass as potential risk factor for malignancy .
 no other similar study concern the age of patient and study factor be find in the literature .
 not surprisingly we find that the age of much than year as well as the presence of nipple discharge and microcalcifications be significantly relate to the risk of malignancy at surgical excision .
 the significance of nipple discharge do not persist in the multivariate analysis .
 it be explain by the number of patient include in study .
 it would be interesting to complete the study of this risk factor with a large number of patient .
 similarly only 3 patient have atypia associate with papilloma on preoperative histology preclude any conclusion on the risk of malignancy if papilloma be associate with atypia .
 conclusion .
 benign papilloma can be associate to malignancy at excisional surgery .
 give the rate of carcinoma find for patient with isolate papillary lesion in study we recommend surgical excision for papilloma .
 we analyzed the risk factor for the association between malignancy and papilloma .
 though microcalcifications and nipple discharge be find to be potential risk factor for malignancy in univariate analysis they not differentiate effectively between benign and malignant disease in multivariate analysis probably because of the low number of patient in study .
 the patient age of much than year and the presence of microcalcifications be find to be independently relate to the risk of malignancy .
 conflict of interest .
 the author have no conflict of interest to disclose .
 acknowledgement .
 the author thank nicole maurin md and sabah ghomrasseni .
 treatment hinge on effective surgical removal of the primary tumor but recurrence occur in a significant portion of patient .
 even with the good technique tumor surgery be usually associate with release of tumor cell into the lymphatic and blood stream and a large fraction of patient already harbor micrometastases and scatter tumor cell at the time of surgery .
 whether this minimal residual disease result in clinical metastases depend largely on the balance between anti-metastatic immune activity and the tumor 's ability to seed proliferate and attract new blood vessel .
 in practice the immune system and other host defense frequently fail to neutralize minimal residual disease consequently local and metastatic disease remain common after breast cancer surgery .
 at least three perioperative factor shift the balance toward progression of minimal residual disease the first be surgery per se which possibly release tumor cell into the circulation depress cell-mediated immunity include cytotoxic t cell and natural killer nk cell function reduce circulate concentration of tumor-related anti-angiogenic factor angiostatin and endostatin increase concentration of pro-angiogenic factor such as vegf and release growth factor that promote local and distant growth of malignant tissue .
 the second factor be anesthesia per se which impair numerous immune component include neutrophil macrophage dendritic cell t-cell and nk-cell function .
 the third be opioid which be give to control surgical pain .
 opioids inhibit both cellular and humoral immune function in human .
 furthermore morphine be pro-angiogenic and promote breast tumor growth in rodent .
 consequently non-opioid analgesia help preserve natural killer cell function in animal and human and reduce metastatic spread of cancer in rodent .
 regional anesthesia and analgesia attenuate or prevent each of this adverse effect .
 for example regional anesthesia moderate the neuroendocrine stress response to surgery by block afferent neural transmission from reach the central nervous system and activate the stress response and by block descend efferent activation of the sympathetic nervous system .
 as might thus be expect surgical stress be attenuate well by regional than by general anesthesia .
 consequently nk cell function be well preserve and metastatic load to the lung be reduce with spinal analgesia in a rat model of breast cancer metastasis .
 when regional and general anesthesia be combine the amount of general anesthetic require be much reduce as be presumably immune suppression .
 furthermore regional analgesia provide superb pain relief usually obviate the need for postoperative opioid and consequent adverse effect on immune function and promotion of tumor growth .
 regional analgesia also reduce release of endogenous opioid .
 available datum thus suggest that regional anesthesia and analgesia help preserve effective defense against tumor progression by attenuate the surgical stress response by reduce general anesthesia requirement and by spare postoperative opioid .
 animal study be consistent with this theory show that regional anesthesia and optimum postoperative analgesia independently reduce the metastatic burden in animal inoculate with breast adenocarcinoma cell .
 preliminary datum in cancer patient also support theory paravertebral anesthesia and analgesia for breast cancer surgery be associate with an approximately four-fold reduce risk of recurrence or metastasis during a to 4 year follow-up period with the ci of the hazard ratio be .
 furthermore patient who have epidural analgesia for open radical prostate surgery be significantly little likely to suffer recurrence unpublished datum .
 consistent with this observation retrospective analysis suggest that use of general anesthesia augment recurrence of melanoma .
 we will thus conduct a multi-national clinical trial to compare recurrence rate in patient with primary breast cancer who will be randomly assign to 1 paravertebral or high-thoracic epidural analgesia combine with sedation or light anesthesia or 2 sevoflurane anesthesia and postoperative opioid analgesia .
 specifically we will test the follow hypothesis primary hypothesis .
 recurrence of local and metastatic cancer after primary breast cancer surgery be reduce when patient be give regional analgesia combine with sedation or light anesthesia rather than sevoflurane anesthesia and postoperative opioid analgesia .
 secondary hypothesis .
 all-cause mortality be reduce when patient be give regional analgesia rather than general anesthesia and opioid analgesia .
 in this report we outline approach and study protocol .
 purpose be to establish an a priori record of principal method and primary endpoint .
 study .
 setting and population .
 the study be a multi-center clinical trial coordinated by the department of outcomes research at the cleveland clinic it be register at .
 the protocol have be approve by the institutional review board at the cleveland clinic the university of louisville the medical university of vienna and mater misericordia hospital of the university of dublin application have be submit by other participate center .
 we will recruit patient with primary breast cancer without know extension beyond the breast and axillary node believe to be tumor stage 1 3 node 2 who be schedule for unilateral or bilateral mastectomy with or without implant or partial mastectomy with axillary node dissection isolate lumpectomy do not qualify .
 patient with any of the follow exclusion criterion will be disqualify 1 previous surgery for breast cancer except diagnostic biopsy 2 inflammatory breast cancer 3 little than 18 or much than 85 year old 4 schedule free flap reconstruction 5 american society of anesthesiologists physical status 4 or great 6 any contraindication to epidural or paravertebral anesthesia and analgesia include coagulopathy and abnormal anatomy 7 any contraindication to midazolam propofol sevoflurane fentanyl or morphine 8 other cancer that accord to the attend surgeon be not in long-term remission or 8 systemic disease with an estimate two-year mortality .
 protocol .
 patient will be premedicated with 1 3 mg intravenous midazolam and 1 2 g kg fentanyl .
 after patient have meet the inclusion exclusion criterion and consent to the study they will be assign randomly to general anesthesia and postoperative opioid analgesia or to regional thoracic epidural or paravertebral anesthesia and analgesia .
 computer-generated anesthesia assignment proc plan in sas statistical software will be stratified by study site with randomly size block individual randomization shortly before surgery will be obtain from a secure web-based system that will automatically record the assignment and the randomization number for auditing purpose .
 full-size image 39k trial profile .
 view within article .
 general anesthesia and opioid analgesia .
 in patient assign to general anesthesia and opioid analgesia general anesthesia group general anesthesia will be induce with 1 3 g kg fentanyl and 2 4 mg kg propofol .
 tracheal intubation will be facilitate by succinylcholine or a non-depolarizing muscle relaxant alternatively a supraglottic airway such as a laryngeal mask can be use .
 additional non-depolarizing muscle relaxant will be administer as deem necessary by the attend anesthesiologist .
 anesthesia will be maintain with sevoflurane in oxygen balance nitrogen and fentanyl .
 sevoflurane and fentanyl administration will be adjust to maintain blood pressure and heart rate within of pre-operative value .
 the lung will be mechanically ventilate to maintain end-tidal pco2 near 35 mm hg .
 because hypothermia impair immune function we will keep patient normothermic a distal esophageal temperature 36 c with forced-air warming .
 the trachea will be extubated at the completion of surgery .
 morphine sulfate will be use for postoperative pain first near the end of surgery .
 the anesthesiologist will titrate morphine administration until the patient 's respiratory rate be between 12 and 14 breath per minute .
 morphine will be provide subsequently for postoperative analgesia as need intravenously or by patient-controlled pump 1 mg boluses with a 6 min lockout period and no background infusion .
 although morphine will be the first-line drug hydromorphone or other opioid can be substitute in equivalent dose in patient who do not tolerate morphine .
 after approximately 24 h patient will be transitioned to acetaminophen and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory analgesic oral opioid will also be permit if necessary .
 regional anesthesia and analgesia .
 in patient assign to regional anesthesia and analgesia regional anesthesia group analgesia will be provide by either thoracic epidural or paravertebral block .
 each ameliorate the surgical stress response and reduce or eliminate the need for general anesthesia and postoperative opioid .
 the choice will be at the discretion of the attend anesthesiologist and based on patient anesthesiologist and surgeon preference .
 when epidural anesthesia be choose a t4 epidural catheter will be insert use a standard technique .
 if t4 insertion prove difficult catheter insertion will be attempt at t3 or t5 .
 after negative aspiration for blood patient will be give a test dose of 3 ml of lidocaine and epinephrine .
 the catheter will be re-inserted or repositioned as necessary until both aspiration and test dose be negative .
 each patient will be give an additional 3-ml bolus of the same or a similar solution to provide intraoperative analgesia .
 the catheter will be repositioned or reinserted as necessary if a sensory block to temperature be confirm in the surgical dermatomes .
 additional 3-ml boluses of bupivacaine or ropivacaine with epinephrine will be give hourly during surgery to maintain anesthesia additional boluses be permit at the discretion of the attend anesthesiologist .
 postoperatively patient-controlled epidural analgesia will be provide by an infusion of ropivacaine and 2 g ml fentanyl with epinephrine start shortly before the patient emerge from general anesthesia .
 the basal infusion rate will be set at 4 8 ml h with 2 ml per demand and a lockout period of min .
 the local anesthetic concentration infusion rate and demand volume can be adjust as clinically indicate to provide excellent analgesia while avoid hypotension .
 paravertebral anesthesia will be provide either with a thoracic t interspace 2 4 catheter or multi-level injection from thoracic interspace 1 to 5 or as clinically appropriate depending on the anticipate scope of surgery .
 when a catheter be to be use it will be insert into the ipsilateral paravertebral space at the level of t2 3 or t3 4 use standard technique .
 each patient will be give a to bolus of bupivacaine or ropivacaine with epinephrine after a test dose with lidocaine and epinephrine .
 near the end of surgery an infusion of 6 ml h of either solution will be start the infusion drug concentration and rate can be modify as deem necessary by the attend anesthesiologist .
 local anesthetic infusion will continue as clinically necessary but not long than 48 h the catheter will be remove before hospital discharge .
 when a multi-level technique be to be use separate injection at thoracic interspace 1 to 5 will be perform with a 22 gauge tuohy needle .
 the needle will be insert cm lateral to the superior aspect of the spinous process on the ipsilateral side of surgery and walk off the transverse process in a caudal direction 1 cm distal to the transverse process .
 ropivacaine 5 ml will be give at each of the five level via extension tubing attach to the syringe .
 additionally injection of ropivacaine will be give by the surgeon to block cervical and contralateral thoracic nerve that also contribute to the innervation of the breast .
 both epidural and paravertebral anesthesia will be supplement with propofol usually g kg 1 min 1 which can also be administer during insertion of the block .
 if clinically necessary a propofol-based general anesthetic can be use .
 when practical a supraglottic airway will be use to minimize airway stimulation and minimize or eliminate the need for muscle relaxant .
 this sort of anesthetic be much close to deep sedation than the full volatile anesthetic describe above for the general anesthesia opioid group .
 opioids can be use if judge clinically necessary but will be avoid to the extent practical in patient assign to regional anesthesia .
 postoperatively analgesia will be provide primarily by either type of regional block and supplement with acetaminophen or non-steroidal analgesic if need or per the individual site 's routine protocol .
 however supplemental morphine can be provide if pain relief be inadequate either by patient-controlled infusion or as need .
 as soon as practical usually at about 24 h patient will be transitioned to acetaminophen and or non-steroidal analgesic and if necessary oral opioid .
 all anesthesiologist participate in the study will have experience with high thoracic epidural or paravertebral block .
 but even in experience hand we can anticipate that 5 of the block will fail the failure rate be in preliminary study .
 patient with unsuccessful block will be switch to the alternative regional technique if practical or give general anesthesia and morphine postoperative analgesia as describe above .
 the overall trial profile be show in .
 transfusion management .
 target minimum hematocrit hct will be determine prospectively based on the patient 's age and cardiovascular status .
 target hematocrit hct will be in patient young than 65 year have no significant cardiovascular disease or great in patient 65 year and old or have cardiovascular disease and or great in patient old than 65 year with significant cardiovascular disease .
 we define significant cardiovascular disease as previous myocardial infarction angina congestive heart failure cardiomyopathy hypertension require treatment or have a diastolic blood pressure exceed mmhg or peripheral vascular disease .
 leukocyte-depleted allogeneic blood will be administer only as necessary to maintain the prospectively determine target hct .
 boluses of ephedrine 5 mg be to be give as necessary at the discretion of the attend anesthesiologist .
 dexamethasone prophylaxis for postoperative nausea and vomit be prohibit by protocol because steroid be immune suppressants .
 however we will provide 4 mg ondansetron as need to patient who experience emesis or nausea .
 measurement .
 morphometric and demographic characteristic of each patient will be record .
 for follow-up purpose we will obtain contact information for the patient and a family member and the name of the patient 's oncologist and primary physician .
 the date of the last menstruation will be obtain in pre-menopausal woman since cycle phase influence natural killer cell function and metastasis risk .
 perioperative use of beta-blockers and cyclooxygenase inhibitor will be record since both impact the immunosuppressive and tumor-promoting effect of surgery .
 the intraoperative and postoperative datum that we will collect be present in table prognostic factor relate to the risk of breast cancer recurrence that be to be collect be list in table .
 table .
 perioperative datum to be collect .
 general groupregional group mac-hours of sevofluranex upper and low block levelsx type of regional anesthesia epidural or paravertebral x initial dose of local anestheticx amount of local anesthetic in 48 h ml x total dose of propofol mg xx bispectral indexaxx blood loss ml xx fluid administrationb ml xx total fentanyl g xx total morphinec mg during surgeryx 2 postoperative hoursx 2 24 postoperative hoursx 24 48 postoperative hoursx arterial blood pressure mm hg xx heart rate beat per min xx core temperature c xx pain vas d 1 h after surgeryxx 2 h after surgeryxx 1st morning after surgeryxx 2nd morning after surgeryxx nauseae and vomitingf 2 h after surgeryxx 1st morning after surgeryxx 2nd morning after surgerygxx duration of hospitalization h xx .
 full-size table .
 a bispectral index bis aspect medical newton ma in much case will be electronically record at 1 min interval .
 b includes allogeneic blood .
 c for analysis purpose other postoperative opioid be convert into equivalent of morphine sulphate use factor in principles of analgesic use in the treatment of acute and chronic cancer pain .
 d vas visual analog scale mm no pain mm ill pain imaginable .
 patient self-report pain .
 e nausea be assess on a numeric rating scale nrs by patient .
 f retching and vomit be consider synonymous .
 g if patient be no long in the hospital on the second postoperative morning an investigator will call them and ask about pain nausea vomit and opioid use .
 view within article .
 table .
 prognostic factor .
 tumor size shape and typea estrogen receptor status extent of nodal involvement preoperative and postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy radiotherapy or endocrine therapy nottingham prognostic indexb if resection margin be clear of tumor .
 full-size table .
 a the national cancer institute tmn definition will be use for stage .
 b a score for which the prognosis for breast cancer be based on the formula tumor size histological grade 1 grade 1 least aggressive histology grade 2 intermediate histology grade 3 much aggressive histology axillary lymph node involvement 1 no node involve 2 up to three node involve 3 much than three node involve .
 a score low than suggest a good outcome whereas a score between and suggest an intermediate prognosis .
 view within article .
 cancer recurrence and all-cause mortality will be evaluate by track patient at six-month interval throughout the study .
 patient and health-care provider will be contact at each follow-up interval to confirm recurrence status and to obtain detail of recurrence if there be one .
 we will also obtain the result of the yearly mammogram that be preformed routinely in this patient .
 biopsy result will be obtain whenever possible .
 the site of initial detect recurrence will be determine .
 at each contact we will determine if additional surgery be require the reason for the surgery and what kind of anesthesia be use general regional monitor anesthesia care .
 all follow-up contact with patient family and caregivers will be conduct by investigator who be strictly blind to group assignment and intraoperative management question that might unblind the follow-up investigator will be specifically avoid .
 healthcare provider will be contact to confirm mortality and provide the cause s of death as list on the death certificate .
 the social security index will also be use to determine mortality for patient who be otherwise completely lose to follow-up .
 all case of apparent recurrence will be evaluate by the adjudication committee which will make the final determination after take into account all available laboratory and clinical evidence .
 members of the adjudication committee be to be strictly blind to randomization and actual perioperative management .
 the committee will consist of the site director however director will be excuse when case from own site be discuss to keep the process completely blind .
 data analysis .
 primary outcome be time to metastatic spread or local cancer recurrence secondary outcome be any-cause mortality .
 the randomized group will be descriptively compare on all baseline variable use summary statistic such as mean and standard deviation median and quartile or frequency and percent as appropriate .
 all test will be two-tailed and the significance level for primary analysis will be sas statistical software carey nc will be use for all datum analysis .
 primary analysis .
 the primary analysis will be intent-to-treat itt where all subject be analyzed in the group to which they be randomized .
 we expect that of the regional block will fail and that this patient will then be convert to general anesthesia .
 such case will be analyzed in the group to which they be randomized .
 we will assess the effect of regional versus general anesthesia on time to recurrence of local or metastatic cancer by compare the randomized group univariably with kaplan meier analysis and a log-rank test while stratify for clinical center .
 equal precision confidence band will be construct and plot for each of the randomized group along with the kaplan meier product-limit recurrence-free estimate .
 as usual for survival analysis patient lose to follow-up due to uncontrollable factor during the study will be censor at the time of last contact .
 patient who die without local recurrence or metastatic disease will also be censor at the time of death .
 secondary analysis .
 in this large randomized trial true confound factor such as those relate to both the intervention and the outcome be not expect because the randomized group will likely be well balanced on baseline factor .
 however multivariable analysis will be an important secondary analysis in order to adjust the estimate treatment effect for any baseline covariables that may be significantly relate to the outcome .
 such analysis usually increase the precision of the estimate treatment effect and thus add power to the trial .
 multivariable analysis will include cox proportional hazard regression to adjust the treatment effect for clinical center and other baseline factor find to be associate with cancer recurrence .
 we will also include as time-varying covariate any chemotherapy or radiotherapy the patient receive after the index surgery and before a patient 's recurrence .
 a much sophisticated approach of accounting for the post-randomization variable by consider them as outcome themselves will be consider potentially by adapt the method of rochon to survival analysis .
 we will assess the proportional hazard assumption for the cox model both graphically and statistically the latter via a test of the interaction between time and individual covariate .
 if the proportional hazard assumption appear grossly violate for a particular continuous covariate we will attempt transformation of the variable and or categorization .
 covariables that we will adjust for if significant at the level include age race ethnicity red cell transfusion tumor size grade type and estrogen receptor status type of surgery and whether preoperative or postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy radiotherapy or endocrine therapy be use .
 in secondary analysis we will also test for interaction between the treatment effect and the follow select covariables red cell transfusion tumor size grade and type estrogen receptor status and whether preoperative or postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy radiotherapy or endocrine therapy be use .
 this analysis may help identify specific subgroup of patient for whom the intervention appear especially helpful or not helpful .
 we will compare the randomized group on length of time until any-cause mortality use the same univariable and multivariable survival analytic method as describe for the primary outcome above .
 an as-treated analysis will be conduct use the same method as describe above for the intent-to-treat analysis .
 sample-size calculation and sequential .
 primary outcome cancer recurrence .
 we hypothesize that control group general anesthesia with opioid use will have a pattern of recurrence similar to that report by and that stage will be similar to that of patient treat previously at the cleveland clinic .
 give this hazard rate for the general anesthesia group we will need to observe a maximum of 356 recurrence to have power at the significance level to detect a reduction in the risk of cancer recurrence hazard ratio allow for three interim analysis at and of the maximum number of event plus a final analysis .
 this calculation include a dropout rate per year and the assumption that of the regional block will fail and thus be convert to general anesthesia which dilute the treatment effect by although analyzed as intent-to-treat .
 we far assume that we will enroll patient the first year the second year and patient per year for an additional three year the total will accordingly be patient during five year of enrollment .
 with the expect accrual and assume hazard rate for the general anesthesia group and under the alternative hypothesis of treatment effect the interim analysis will occur at year 89 event year 178 event and year 268 event with a final analysis if need at year 356 event 2 .
 as usual for survival statistic the interim analysis be based on the number of recurrence event not enrollment or elapse time .
 under the alternative hypothesis the probability of stop the trial for either efficacy or futility at the 1st 2nd or 3rd interim analysis be and with a probability of of continue to the final look .
 larger true treatment effect would have large probability of stop for efficacy before the final look .
 full-size image 45k with the expect accrual and assume hazard rate for the general anesthesia group and under the alternative hypothesis of treatment effect the interim analysis will occur at year 89 event year 178 event and year 268 event with a final analysis if need at year 356 event .
 view within article .
 calculation assume non-binding stopping rule the data and safety monitoring board will have ultimate authority and account for monitor both the null and alternative hypothesis .
 we use the gamma family spending function of hwang shih and de cani where the parameter gamma control how fast alpha or beta be spend throughout the trial .
 we use gamma 4 for efficacy alpha spending and gamma 2 for futility beta spending .
 we be thus spend the beta somewhat fast than the alpha during the trial .
 the boundary meet at the end of the maximum accrual so that a decision for either efficacy or futility will be make at some point during the trial .
 stopping boundary for efficacy and futility in parenthesis be as follow 1st look p p 2nd look p p 3rd look p p last look p p .
 analogous calculation be perform for secondary outcome all-cause mortality .
 full-size image 44k we use the gamma family spending function of hwang shi and decani where the parameter gamma control how fast alpha or beta be spend throughout the trial .
 we use gamma 4 for efficacy alpha spending which closely resemble the o'brien fleming spending function and gamma 2 for futility beta spending which be between the pocock and o'brien fleming approach .
 view within article .
 full-size image 39k stopping boundary for efficacy and futility in parenthesis of the trial be as follow 1st look p p 2nd look p p 3rd look p p last look p p .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 preliminary retrospective study suggest that regional analgesia reduce the risk of cancer recurrence for example the cancer recurrence rate be find to be reduce by a factor-of-four p in woman with breast cancer who be give paravertebral analgesia rather than morphine for postoperative analgesia .
 however only a large outcome study such as the one we describe here can adequately test hypothesis .
 confirming hypothesis that regional analgesia for breast cancer surgery reduce the risk of recurrence would be immediately applicable since paravertebral and thoracic epidural block be routine procedure that be familiar to many anesthesiologist .
 study have the potential to demonstrate that a minor trivial modification to anesthetic management one that can be implement with little risk or cost will reduce the risk of metastases a complication that be ultimately lethal in much case .
 similar study test the hypothesis that recurrence of endometrial and colon cancer be reduce when patient be give regional analgesia combine with sedation or light anesthesia rather than general anesthesia and postoperative opioid analgesia will start in the third quarter of .
 acknowledgement .
 nancy alsip of the outcomes research institute university of louisville edit the manuscript .
 diet demographic early menarche childlessness timing and length of exposure to hormone chemical may account for some of the risk factor contribute to this disparity .
 effective management encompass the need to understand the multi-factorial nature of breast cancer in order to accomplish prevention or improve treatment outcome and patient quality of life at every stage of the disease .
 the fact that of woman still succumb to breast cancer underscore the need to identify all the disease marker genetic and epigenetic change that regulate mammary epithelial cell proliferation .
 for the purpose of infectious agent-disease association viral proto-oncogene have be omit from this paper the interested reader be referred to cairns for an overview .
 instead the link between inflammation and malignancy be explore in order to examine the potential role of infectious agent in disease etiology and treatment .
 virchow first postulate in 1863 that cancer originate at chronic site of inflammation based on the premise that certain irritant enhance cell proliferation .
 a grow body of clinical and experimental datum implicate virus as infectious irritant or associate with 15 of human cancer include possibly breast cancer .
 the relationship of other infectious agent notably microbe to breast cancer remain vague even though such a relationship have be establish for a number of chronic disease .
 hypothesis .
 breast cancer management be identical to that of other cancer in term of the need to understand risk factor alleviate treatment side-effect and improve outcome include the prevention of cancer recurrence .
 agents that be capable of evade the immune system for long period of time promote a chronic inflammatory response that may increase the likelihood of cancer and or promote tumor metastases .
 the correlation between cause and effect become blur when consider criterion that may be suitable to label certain virus and microbe as oncogenic infectious agent .
 when the association of an infectious agent with cancer be little than the question arise whether such an association be significant proof of causality .
 ubiquitous or opportunistic infectious agent may further complicate effort to pinpoint an association of microbe with cancer .
 however identification of lesser or indirect association may aid the treatment of patient subset the link between persistent hepatitis b virus infection and the increase risk of liver cancer and possible connection between human mammary tumor virus and breast cancer .
 microbe have be associate with a number of chronic disease but be under-reported potential oncogenic infectious agent .
 accurate detection may be one reason for the paucity of literature report .
 before one establish an association with a disease there have to be convincing evidence that the infectious agent be actually present in the tumor to induce a local response or be present at an early stage of the disease perhaps prime the immune response for the onset of cancer or promote metastases .
 in addition any putative correlation between microbe and cancer have to be based on an understanding of all the feature of a microbe useful for identification and examination of a local or distal oncogenic response nucleic acid bacterial lipopolysaccharides dead or viable but non cultivable microbe as well as strain variant that may evade immune defense and therapy .
 implicit in any cancer-microbe hypothesis be the assumption that there be a link between microbe microbial component and cancer onset as well as progression .
 the evidence for a cancer-microbe association be strong for gastric and colonic neoplasm than for breast malignancy .
 the first part of this paper focuses on improve technique develop in other study that help to confirm or refute the case for an association between microbe and breast cancer .
 the second part review novel microbial adjuvant therapy that be also of relevance to breast cancer treatment .
 finding the cancer microbe .
 when normal cellular proliferation program go awry the result be cancer .
 the disease be usually age-dependent and may involve exposure to hormone carcinogen at critical time point or over the course of an entire lifespan .
 if one adopt virchow 's viewpoint of cancer as also be a disease of chronic inflammation then an exploration of host-microbial interaction be warrant in order to fully understand breast cancer etiology .
 microbe outnumber human cell by at least ten to one in a healthy person and play important but largely unexplored role in health maintenance and disease .
 the consistent association of helicobacter pylori and gastric cancer provide direct evidence of a role for certain microbe as oncogenic infectious agent .
 what be the evidence that other microbe strain variant or microbial component be even present in tumor molecular analysis use 16 rdna sequence have enable the sensitive detection and identification of numerous microorganism in prostate cancer .
 in the case of breast cancer molecular method have reveal candidate endogenous control gene as well as an association of a human mammary tumor virus with the disease .
 molecular documentation of microbe in match normal and breast cancer tissue will be important in establish a connection between the disease and specific organism microbial component strain variant or shift in microbial distribution .
 are strain variant or mutant an unknown factor in breast cancer etiology mutants find in association with endocarditis cystic fibrosis and other infection form colony one tenth the size of wild type counterpart be resistant to antibiotic and have certain nutritional or auxotrophic requirement .
 in the case of cancer cell-wall deficient strain variant or l-form microbe have be identify in association with breast tumor see the cancer microbe and other text .
 this osmosensitive microbial variant be of medical relevance because they persist after antibiotic treatment and play a role in relapse infection .
 the l-form microbe identification in tumor have be call into question perhaps because many researcher do not look for any association or think that acid-fast stain tumor biopsy use in early study be reveal artifact .
 the acid-fast stain be typically use to detect tubercular infection in smear biopsy and positive identification be make based on microbial retention of carbol fuchsin in the presence of acid-alcohol .
 acid-fast stain be useful in pinpoint breast tuberculosis mycobacteria have a very thick cell wall but by itself may not be convincing identification of l-form microbe in tumor biopsy .
 recent immunohistochemical and electron microscopy evidence have provide much definitive proof that l-form microbe be present in chronic gastritis and other disease model system .
 historical experiment have also show that micrococci obtain from breast tumor and inject into test subject induce the disease in some case .
 although early l-form-microbe-cancer study have include cultivation other researcher find unstable l-form microbe difficult in general to cultivate on agar plate unless special condition be use .
 cultivation remain the gold standard for confirm microbial infection even though only 1 of microbe can be grow on know microbiological medium .
 two study may enable a genetic analysis of the l-form cancer microbe .
 in 1958 lederberg and st .
 clair show that l-form of escherichia coli k12 be auxotrophs and readily be cultivate by penicillin selection and growth in the presence of a microbial lysate consist mainly of the peptidoglycan cross-linking amino acid diaminopimelic acid .
 almost fifty year later joselau-petit et expand upon this finding by show that unstable coli l-form be not cell-wall deficient but in fact contain about of wild type peptidoglycan .
 efficient propagation of l-form require the peptidoglycan precursor d-glutamate diaminopimelic acid and mura the enzyme that catalyzes synthesis of the muramic acid side chain .
 improve method for l-form isolation be expand to all cultivable microbe .
 a systematic evaluation then be make in model system as to whether l-form be oncogenic infectious agent of a different class than other microbe microbial component or the recently characterize human mammary tumor virus .
 tantalizing new evidence have emerge that microbe also promote distal oncogenic response .
 pathogenic gut microbe have be associate with extra-intestinal tumor development in the breast .
 the author of a recent study observe elevate level of a know breast cancer metastatic marker tnf- in helicobacter hepaticus-infected mouse .
 increased level of this proinflammatory have also be observe in mouse with other cancer and in human patient with advance breast cancer .
 although the exact mechanism by which gut bacterium trigger inflammation and induce extra-intestinal tumor remain unclear this result point to a new causative agent of breast cancer and correlate with separate finding that anti-inflammatory drug and lymphocyte reduce the invasive pathology of the disease .
 clues to understand host-microbe interaction and improve treatment .
 in vitro study of l-form and other microbe as well as microscopic assessment of the presence or absence of microbe inside tumor be necessary step for evaluate any role that this infectious agent may have in breast cancer .
 it be possible that chronic microbial infection involve adherence invasion replication and persistence may contribute to a host immune response that exacerbate the disease in patient subset .
 such a response may involve an increase in tumor-associated macrophage which be know to play important role in breast cancer onset and progression .
 alternatively microbial product such as lipopolysaccharides dna and rna condition the immune response and alter the probability of cancer .
 unlike pylori and other microbe that may be associate with cancer l-form microbe be regard as stealth pathogens because they be associate with latent atypical or chronic infection and be unresponsive to antibiotic treatment .
 coli l-form be know to stimulate the number of peritoneal macrophage in a lung cancer model system .
 putative l-form breast cancer microbe may well stimulate tumor-associated macrophage in a similar manner .
 what would be the consequence of such a stimulation elevated macrophage may produce free radical that cause cellular damage .
 on the other hand a recent study show the persistence of l-form microbe inside and outside phagocyte cell provide corroborative support to the idea that the immune system of some patient may be compromise with respect to breast cancer microbial variant .
 microbe in breast cancer treatment .
 on the flip side microbe may be of benefit during breast cancer treatment .
 chemotherapy-induced nausea vomit and diarrhea be adverse event associate with for continuous five fluorouracil-treatment of advance breast cancer .
 severe gastrointestinal side-effect may lead to dose reduction or therapy cessation with adverse consequence for the patient .
 in clinical trial lactobacillus rhamnosus gg and fiber supplementation have significantly reduce gastrointestinal side-effect associate with 5 fluorouracil-treatment of colorectal cancer .
 similar probiotic adjuvant regimen may provide natural alternative to pharmaceutical antiemetic therapy currently be use in conjunction with the chemotherapy of breast cancer .
 in addition to palliation of symptom there be renew interest in microbe to eradicate breast and other tumor .
 william coley in the late demonstrate the efficacy of kill bacterial vaccine in destroy tumor cell in certain patient with bone and soft tissue sarcoma .
 because of the immunological dependence of endotoxin therapy and the fact that patient enter clinical trial have previously be subject to radiotherapy and or chemotherapy with know immunological side-effect the outcome of late cancer vaccine study prove disappointing and this approach be abandon .
 the recent discovery that anaerobic microbe preferentially colonize hypoxic region of tumor and cause cell lysis may provide a novel 21st century twist and a mean of improve upon coley 's toxin .
 vogelstein demonstrate that clostridium novyei deplete of lethal toxin kill viable tumor cell when administer to mouse .
 other have show that the anaerobic microbe bifidobacterium longum grow in the hypoxic region of solid tumor .
 in addition cheong et find optimal efficacy of anaerobic microbial therapy when use in combination with chemotherapy .
 the latter group show that intravenous injection of mouse with noveyi spore before treatment with a doxorubicin derivative doxil cause enhance tumor shrinkage compare with use either agent alone .
 a liposomase be identify as the key enzyme responsible for improve treatment result from combination therapy .
 extrapolating this finding to human may be limited if the microbial component be immunogenic .
 nevertheless the opportunity to selectively deliver a one two knockout punch to tumor use microbial component and specialized vector-delivery system represent a powerful addition to the anti-cancer arsenal .
 acknowledgment .
 dr .
 thaler davis and cantwell be thank for insight and encouragement .
 this paper be dedicate in memory of professor joshua lederberg .
 and this work have be support by a grant from the sloan foundation .
 first much cancer patient die from metastases and not from primary disease .
 second early surgery be often the only cure .
 third somatic genetic change accumulate during local progression which be extrapolate to systemic progression since only rare variant cell within the tumor give rise to metastases .
 fourth repeat round of in vivo selection lead to cell line with increase metastasis formation kang et and minn et .
 however several clinical and experimental observation be inconsistent with this model .
 for example metastasis can develop from small cancer or even in the absence of detectable primary tumor so-called cancer of unknown primary which rank among the much frequent cancer diagnosis .
 furthermore epidemiological analysis of much than breast cancer patient indicate that metastasis might be initiate already 5 7 year before diagnosis of the primary tumor suggest that cancer cell capable to metastasize do not necessarily develop within large tumor .
 also the notion of early metastasis be indirectly support by gene expression study van't veer et reveal that patient with poor prognosis can be identify before manifestation of metastasis .
 thus while metastatic spread seem to be somehow genetically predetermine the time point of metastatic dissemination be not resolve .
 there be no doubt that a deep understanding of metastasis be critical for design much effective therapy for systemic cancer .
 for example if metastatic spread occur late in progression inhibitor of invasion should be able to prevent it .
 this however be not observe in several clinical trial testing inhibitor of matrix-metalloproteinases .
 if however tumor cell dissemination occur early the question need to be address how tumor cell can survive in a quiescent state for year at ectopic site and how tumor dormancy and metastatic outgrowth be regulate .
 last but not least if disseminate tumor cell dtc develop parallel to the primary tumor over a prolong time molecular target on those dtc need to be urgently identify .
 we previously address the issue of early versus late metastatic spread by analyzing dtc in bone marrow of breast cancer patient year before metastatic manifestation .
 such cell display different and fewer aberration than match primary tumor a find suggestive of early dissemination .
 among those dtc we identify cancer cell that spread before onset of chromosomal instability .
 though chromosomal instability have be observe before histological cancer invasion breast cancer cell may still disseminate before they become chromosomally instable and prior to microscopic invasion .
 interestingly a subpopulation of this karyotypically normal cancer cell in bone marrow display her-2 amplification a marker of particularly aggressive disease al-kuraya et and kronqvist et .
 therefore we think to search for dtc in a transgenic her-2 model of breast cancer at the early time point of atypical epithelial transformation .
 for direct comparison we report on finding of dtc in breast cancer patient include patient with in situ carcinoma .
 result epithelial cell disseminate in the premalignant phase of murine breast cancer .
 to study tumor progression much closely we choose balb c mouse transgenic for the activate rat her-2 neu gene balb-neut mouse di carlo et 1999 a model that mimic progression and gene expression profile of human breast cancer .
 female of this strain which be hemizygous for the constitutively activate rat her-2 gene under control of the mmtv promoter develop invasive mammary cancer while her-2 negative sibling wild-type balb c mouse remain tumor free .
 in balb-neut female mammary epithelia start to express the oncogene at the onset of puberty week 3 to 4 of age when the mouse become responsive to steroid sex hormone .
 epithelial hyperplasia can be detect microscopically in the mammary gland at week 7 9 di carlo et 1999 .
 progress to in situ carcinoma occur between week 14 and around week 18 tumor of the mammary gland become palpable or visible and at week 23 invasive cancer become apparent .
 mice have to be euthanized between week 27 and 33 when primary tumor exceed the size of cm in diameter and lung metastases be macroscopically detectable .
 full-size image 89k high-quality image 953k figure tumor progression of systemic disease in balb-neut .
 a left panel whole mount of the mammary gland of a balb-neut mouse at week 9 show the absence of tumor in the branch ductal tree .
 n indicate lymph node arrow point to the nipple and arrowhead show side bud into and around the mammary duct .
 middle panel histological section of mammary gland at week 9 show that side bud display the morphology of atypical ductal hyperplasia adh with epithelial cell arrange in small well-defined nodule around the duct .
 right panel histology of invasive cancer in week the neoplastic epithelial cell form pseudoalveolar and scarcely define solid nest invade the surround fibroadipose stroma .
 b left panel detection of micrometastases by anti-her-2 antibody in lung of a 27 week-old mouse .
 right panel eight micro metastasis in the lung from three transgenic mouse week 27 and two sample of normal lung tissue be microdissected and analyzed for the mammary-gland-specific transcript lactalbumin and microdissected tissue of normal mammary gland mock-control .
 c progression of local and systemic disease in balb-neut mouse over time .
 left panel increase of tumor area triangle indicate mean value whisker confidence interval with solid line between triangle indicate well fit curve .
 right panel number of red dot and blue dot cell per bone marrow cell whisker indicate confidence interval dash red or blue line depict result from nontransgenic control mouse for ck or her-2 respectively .
 d immunofluorescent double staining of bone marrow cell for ck red and her-2 green expression .
 left to right her-2 small two-cell-aggregate ck single cell small aggregate 3 cell .
 table summarize the result of all analyzed cell .
 view within article .
 the principal goal of the study be to find out when cell express the her-2 transgene disseminate and how they emigrate from the dysplastic breast epithelia .
 since the her-2 receptor be express neither in normal lung tissue nor in bone marrow we concentrate on this organ as preferred site of metastasis in breast cancer patient .
 in addition for the detection of early human cancer spread in bone marrow staining with anti-cytokeratin ck antibody be specific and sensitive as demonstrate by numerous study braun et and klein include simultaneous staining with anti-ck and anti-cd45 panhematopoietic antibody which show cd45-negativity of the cell .
 surprisingly in balb-neut mouse cytokeratin positive cell and her-2 express cell become detectable in bone marrow at as early as 4 9 week of age when the much meticulous analysis of the mammary gland detect area of atypical ductal hyperplasia adh solely figure 1c and figure s1a s1c available with this article online .
 in lung tissue single tumor cell become detectable from week 9 on and micrometastases be first visible around week table s1 and figure 1b .
 furthermore the descent of lung micrometastases from mammary tissue be confirm by the demonstration of mammary-specific alpha casein and lactalbumin transcript .
 the specificity of tumor cell detection by antibody direct against her-2 and cytokeratin be far control use sample of nontransgenic sibling .
 despite exponential growth at the primary site which be depict as sum of the total tumor area of the ten mammary gland of balb-neut mouse in figure 1c the number of and cell in bone marrow rise marginally over the course of time 4 to 17 and 1 to 7 respectively figure 1c .
 as the total number of cell singly positive for her-2 and ck be not congruent we perform double staining for the two antigen .
 indeed not all tumor cell express both marker suggest either the existence of heterogeneous tumor cell population that disseminate to distant site or different cellular state of the disseminate tumor cell dtc .
 interestingly the majority of all detect dtc n 35 cell in 7 mouse be while her-2 be express in little than .
 similar datum be obtain from blood sample table s2 although the detection rate of dtc be low than in bone marrow .
 to test whether early dissemination be only characteristic for balb-neut mouse we also screen bone marrow sample from mmtv-polyomavirus-middle t transgenic mouse .
 though we be unable to establish immunohistological detection of tumor cell by antibody direct against the pymt antigen tumor cell be detect at week 4 6 in bone marrow by anti-ck staining figure s2c and s2d when only adh or dcis be find in mammary tissue figure s2a .
 lung micrometastases although difficult to detect by hematoxylin eosin he staining alone be find start from 14 week of age figure s2b .
 as in the balb-neut mouse we observe no significant increase in number of dtc in bone marrow during tumor growth table s3 .
 tumor cell emigrate from transgenic mammary gland transplant in wild-type siblings .
 although cytokeratin expression in bone marrow provide strong evidence that the cell be indeed derived from epithelia we seek direct evidence that the and cell have disseminate from the transform breast tissue and that the detection of positive cell be not due to extramammary transgene expression .
 therefore we transplant mammary gland fragment from 3- to 12-week-old transgenic mouse n 8 orthotopically onto 3-week-old wild-type sibling n 16 .
 each recipient receive in one clear fat pad one tissue fragment of one donor gland .
 bone marrow of the recipient be then screen for and cell 7 26 week later .
 in all recipient of balb-neut mouse transplant we find the her-2 transgene to be express in the graft at dissection .
 full-size image 65k high-quality image 584k figure and dtc are derived from transformed mammary tissue .
 a her-2 staining of grafted tissue at autopsy 14 week after transplantation of transgenic tissue into wild-type mouse .
 numerous epithelial cell in the atypical ductal hyperplasia adh focus express her-2 in brown .
 b and c and cell in bone marrow of recipient wild-type mouse respectively .
 d box plot display number of and cell per bone marrow cell of balb-neut wild-type balb c mouse and wild-type recipient of transplant transgenic mammary tissue transplant .
 e box plot display number of and cell per bone marrow cell of wild-type recipient of transplant transgenic mammary tissue .
 ic invasive cancer .
 f representative result of cgh analysis of isolate single cell from different model .
 only chromosomal region designate accord with aberration be show .
 left column depict identifiers of the mouse with the letter c and h indicate the antigen use for detection c cytokeratin h her2 281-9-c9 to 281-9-h6 and cell isolate at week 9 from balb-neut mouse 158-29-c31 to and cell isolate at week 27-29 from balb-neut mouse to and cell isolate from bone marrow of wild-type mouse after mammary tissue transplantation bmt5-c119 to bmt3-h61 and cell isolate from bone marrow of wild-type mouse after bone marrow view within article .
 in transplant wild-type animal the number of or cell per bone marrow cell be low than in balb-neut mouse p and p respectively mann-whitney-test figure 2d but significantly above very rare false-positive cell number in control mouse on average 4 in bone marrow cell for ck and 6 in for her-2 p for and cell mann-whitney-test figure 2d .
 much likely this reflect the reduce total number of transgenic mammary cell in recipient mouse carry a single transgenic gland compare to balb-neut mouse carry ten transgenic mammary gland .
 in the transgenic mouse we have analyzed the histology of the large tumor only ignore the remain 9 mammary gland while in transplant recipient mouse we scrutinize the single tumor arise from the transgenic mammary graft for sign of invasiveness the exact staging of the transplant be based on histology after complete serial sectioning .
 again no increase of dtc in bone marrow be observe from the stage of adh on up to the stage of invasive cancer p for cell and p for cell mann-whitney-test figure 2e .
 the malignant origin of the or disseminate cell detect in bone marrow be establish by single-cell comparative genomic hybridization cgh .
 both and cell isolate from bone marrow display multiple chromosomal aberration in contrast to single leukocyte with normal cgh profile figure 2f and figure s3 .
 thus cgh ascertain the malignancy of the cell which unambiguously originate from the single transplant mammary gland .
 gene expression program associated with early tumor spread .
 in the balb-neut and the pymt tumor model dissemination begin shortly after expression of the oncogenic transgene without histologically detectable sign of invasion .
 by light microscopy the underlie basement membrane show no gross interruption .
 this raise the question of how transform epithelial cell get out of the atypical hyperplastic area .
 however when examine by electron microscopy epithelial cell cross the basement membrane be clearly identify figure 3b and 3c for balb-neut mouse and figure s2e and s2f for mmtv-pymt .
 in wild-type sibling neither basement membrane lesion nor emigrate cell be discern .
 the observation that the basement membrane underlie hyperplastic epithelia appear to be disrupt in balb-neut mouse beg the question whether a local activation of proteolytic enzyme be verify there .
 we therefore apply cdna array analysis of laser microdissected sample to assess the expression of invasion-associated protease in adh at week 9 and large carcinoma at week 27 use a recently establish mrna amplification method klein et and klein et and hybridize the sample onto a small dedicate cdna array .
 this array comprise 41 cdna encode matrix-metalloproteases mmp and cathepsin that have early be imply in invasion and metastasis egeblad and werb and turk et .
 a high expression of cathepsin ctsz ctsb ctsf ctsl ctsd and ctsh metalloproteases mmp2 mmp14 mmp11 and timp3 and caspase casp2 and casp9 be observe in the early lesion false discovery rate q for week 9 compare to week 27 .
 the increase in ctsz p ctsd p mmp2 p ctsh p and ctsb p expression be significant in a one-sided wilcoxon test correct accord to hochberg .
 the gene expression pattern at week 9 be separate from those at week 27 by cluster analysis cluster robustness index figure 3d except for a few outliers .
 for mmp2 we find by immunohistochemistry that the protein be not express in normal tissue of young mouse week 9 figure 3e while strongly express in adh at week 9 in transgenic mouse .
 full-size image high-quality image 1129k figure electron microscopical analyses of mammary tissue and activation of invasive properties during adh .
 a c electron microscopical analysis of mammary a mammary duct of a 9-week-old wild-type sibling balb c mouse line by polygonal large dark and light cell with luminal microvilli and dark myoepithelial cell m locate at the basal surface without luminal contact .
 throughout the duct be surround by a well-defined basal membrane arrowhead which continuously outline the basal border of the epithelial and myoepithelial b and c mammary duct of a 9-week-old balb-neut mouse line by polygonal irregularly arrange b indifferent small- and medium-sized cell without luminal contact frequently show aspect of stromal invasiveness disrupt the basal membrane .
 myoepithelial cell be scarcely c higher magnification of the cell-disrupting basal membrane arrowhead intact basal membrane arrow disrupt basal membrane .
 d cluster analysis of expression datum from the cdna array dedicate to molecule from the proteolytic system .
 sample identifiers on the right consist of age in week the number of the mouse from which the sample be take and the sample number individual sample from one animal be isolate from different mammary gland .
 note cluster of sample from 9-week-old mouse in the low third of the figure display upregulation of various proteolytic enzyme .
 e and f immunohistochemistry with anti-mmp2 antibody show scarce mmp2 expression in wild-type balb c mouse at 9 week of age e while strong expression in brown in side bud and duct with adh of 9-week-old balb-neut mouse f .
 g quantitative rt-pcr of twist mrna .
 microdissected tissue sample isolate from transgenic animal at week 9 adh and 27 tumor edge and center and wild-type balb c-mice normal .
 asterisk indicate significant upregulation of twist in adh sample .
 view within article .
 abundant protease expression in hyperplastic lesion may provide a mechanism for early tumor spread and may be part of a gene regulatory program .
 we therefore determine the expression of the transcription factor twist which be a morphogenetic regulator affect cell migration a marker of undifferentiated mammary cell and apparently play a role in metastasis by regulate both cell invasion and intravasation howe et and yang et .
 we compare mrna expression from several gland from wild-type mouse n lesion with adh n 16 and area of invasive cancer dissect from central part n 19 or the invasion front n 12 by quantitative pcr .
 more than of sample from normal mammary gland central tumor area and microdissected area from the invasion front display no or very low level of twist mrna .
 in contrast adh lesion express twist mrna significantly much often at medium or high level p pearson chi-square df 6 two-sided figure 3g which be in keep with the notion that the genetic program govern cell dissemination be activate during early transformation .
 evidence that early-disseminated cell grow into metastases .
 the intriguing finding of tumor cell disseminate from preinvasive mammary lesion raise the question of whether they also may grow into metastases .
 although the time point of dissemination of metastatic founder cell be determine directly in vivo we obtain evidence of early systemic spread of founder cell from the follow different type of experiment .
 we assess the onset of metastasis relative to primary tumor growth .
 histological section of the lung be therefore take to detect the presence of micrometastases and to measure increase over time .
 this be detect from week to 21 onward a time point at which mostly in situ carcinoma be present at the primary site .
 since metastases need time to grow increase in size parallel that of the primary lesion support the conclusion that at least in some case founder cell of metastases have disseminate there early and have start to proliferate .
 full-size image 69k high-quality image 689k figure progression of lung metastasis in balb-neut mice and wild-type recipients of transgenic mammary tissue .
 a and b progression of lung metastasis in balb-neut mouse with and without removal of primary tumor .
 increase of tumor area over time a same as figure 1c be plot next to the size of the large lung metastases note logarithmic scale detect in individual mouse b .
 blue square indicate average size of metastases from nonoperated mouse at various time point red triangle indicate the average size of metastases from operate animal at 15 week after surgery and whisker indicate confidence interval .
 c h tumor progression after transplantation of noncancerous mammary tissue from balb-neut mouse into wild-type c and d histology of graft tissue at surgery 26 week after transplantation resemble adh c and small invasive carcinoma d .
 he- e and her-2 staining f of lung micrometastasis 13 week after g experimental design to assess tumor progression in wild-type recipient of mammary gland after surgery .
 primary tumor be analyzed after 26 week in euthanized and operate mouse .
 asterisk indicate time point when lung and bone marrow sample be h result of transplantation experiment of mouse treat with curative intention by surgery adh atypical ductal hyperplasia ic invasive carcinoma .
 note the small size of resected tumor when compare to tumor of balb-neut mouse in a and the unusually high number of her2-positive cell in bm of mt1 diagnose with adh .
 view within article .
 to address this point much directly we perform surgery on balb-neut mouse and try to remove the entire milk line .
 only mouse old than 18 week survive this radical procedure .
 however for none of the four 18-week-old mouse display in situ carcinoma only we prevent or reduce the number or size of lung metastases at 27 33 week of age .
 to test whether dtc from large tumor differ from early-disseminated tumor cell we compare chromosomal aberration .
 we reason that while dissemination occur early only genetically further-progressed cancer cell would be able to grow into metastases .
 we therefore analyzed the cgh profile from tumor cell isolate from bone marrow of mouse at week 9 and old than week 27 by hierarchical cluster analysis and support-vector-machine classification figure s4 .
 we not separate the tumor cell from young and old animal and not detect a significant increase of aberration from young to old animal p exact wilcoxon rank sum test .
 a final set of experiment be direct at tumor progression in wild-type female that have receive orthotopic graft of mammary gland from 3- to 4-week-old transgenic sibling .
 in this mouse lung micro metastases become detectable at about week of age while balb-neut female with autochthonous primary cancer develop lung metastases at week on average .
 next we excise the engraft gland again at various time point and follow the operate recipient .
 in recipient n 8 from which the grafted gland have be excise 23 26 week after primary transplantation the mammary tissue be diagnose with atypical ductal hyperplasia adh in two recipient with small invasive cancer of 9 mm2 in four recipient and with invasive cancer measure between 35 mm2 in the remain two recipient tally with tumor of balb-neut female before week 18 and at week 22 respectively figure 4a .
 after an additional 11 13 week the operate recipient be sacrifice and screen for local relapse and for tumor cell in bone marrow and lung .
 in none of the animal do we observe a local relapse but all display sign of either minimal residual disease or lung metastasis .
 even animal with very small primary lesion in the resected gland carry micrometastasis in lung figure 4c 4f .
 we then compare the incidence of lung micro metastases between animal that have be diagnose with invasive cancer and either sacrifice n or operate n 6 about 26 week after mammary tissue transplantation .
 of the animal that be sacrifice at this time point only one mouse harbored lung micrometastasis .
 in contrast of the six animal with resection of the transplant mammary tissue by surgery at week 26 four of them be diagnose with metastatic growth micrometastasis or metastases in the lung 11 13 week later p fisher 's exact test figure 4g and 4h .
 this find indicate that disseminate cancer cell continue to progress and underscore that the single case with adh and lung micrometastasis indeed represent progressive minimal residual disease .
 early dtc be released from growth arrest .
 obviously tumor cell dissemination occur early but additional mechanism regulate outgrowth .
 for example at no time point we observe manifest bone metastasis or a frequency of tumor cell of much than in bone marrow of balb-neut mouse .
 therefore we ask whether dtc in bone marrow of young mouse proliferate and generate progeny after stimulation with endogenous growth factor and chemokine as a consequence of irradiation .
 we transplant bone marrow from transgenic mouse into lethally irradiate nontransgenic sibling .
 three transgenic donor 11 week old be euthanized and 7 to bone marrow cell be transplant into 11 wild-type littermates .
 the bone marrow of one wild-type balb c mouse be transplant into three sibling as control .
 staining with ck antibody reveal the presence of 4 12 positive cell per bone marrow cell in the inoculum of transgenic mouse indicate a total of cell per recipient mouse .
 nineteen to 22 week later all bone marrow transplant recipient become moribund four animal be find dead before bone marrow be analyzed and autopsy show massive infiltration of bone marrow by cell comprise of all nucleated cell .
 irradiated mouse receive bone marrow from wild-type balb c sibling n 3 be healthy until they be sacrifice week 19 28 and 43 respectively and harbored no cell in bone marrow .
 so far all isolate single and cell from recipient animal display cgh abnormality demonstrate malignant origin .
 interestingly no metastases be detect at other site .
 the experiment demonstrate that bone-marrow-derived tumor cell disseminate during adh and can establish bone marrow carcinosis upon transplantation .
 full-size image 34k high-quality image figure dtc from 11-week-old transgenic mice form bone marrow carcinosis in wild-type recipients .
 a bone marrow sample full of cell dark blue-black cell indicate bone marrow carcinosis .
 b summary of bone marrow transplantation experiment from her-2 transgenic or control mouse into wild-type sibling balb c mouse .
 view within article .
 dissemination of tumor cell i not associated with tumor size in human breast cancer .
 one provocative finding of study be that in mouse model of breast cancer large tumor seed neither much nor genetically further-advanced cancer cell than do small lesion figure 1c and figure s4 respectively .
 thus the ability of metastatic dissemination do not appear to be the result of selection of tumor cell within the tumor .
 rather the datum suggest that tumor cell disseminate early and will be select for outgrowth at distant site .
 we analyzed sample from breast cancer patient to test this hypothesis .
 from breast cancer patient we screen bone marrow sample for the presence of dtc and assess the number of dtc for the different size of primary tumor .
 we find no association between the tumor stage and the presence of disseminate cell p pearson 's chi-square df 6 two-sided figure 6a and specifically the finding of cell in patient with ductal carcinoma in situ dcis and t1-stage patient be statistically not different p pearson 's chi-square test .
 however the number of cell seed to bone marrow in dcis patient be significantly high than observe in control patient which be stain use the same antibody mab a45 b b3 p pearson 's chi-square test 2 side .
 full-size image high-quality image 124k figure number and karyotype of dtc detected in bone marrow of breast cancer patient .
 a number of detect cell per bone marrow cell in patient with different tumor stage dcis n 39 t1 n 328 t2 n and t3 4 n 38 .
 b karyotype of cell in bone marrow of breast cancer patient .
 patient harboring dtc with only normal with only abnormal and with normal and abnormal karyotype be not differentially distribute between tumor t1 27 patient with 49 dtc t2 23 patient with 39 dtc and t3 4 6 patient with 17 dtc .
 view within article .
 finally as in the balb-neut model we rule out that tumor cell in bone marrow of patient with large primary tumor be genetically far advance than disseminate cancer cell of patient with small tumor .
 we have previously show that bone marrow sample of breast cancer patient contain tumor cell without chromosomal aberration while the match primary tumor display abnormal karyotype .
 such cell apparently disseminate before the onset of chromosomal instability at the primary site which be think to occur before stroma invasion .
 furthermore the malignant origin of cytokeratin-positive cell with normal karyotype be establish by demonstration of loss of heterozygosity .
 we conclude that such cell represent the early stage of genetic tumor development .
 in follow up this lead we examine the chromosomal aberration of dtc in bone marrow take from patient in various tumor stage .
 patient be classify into those harboring only cell with cgh abnormality only cell without cgh abnormality and those harboring both type of tumor cell in bone marrow .
 we analyzed single cell isolate from 56 patient and not observe a significant difference between patient with small and large cancer figure 6b p pearson 's chi-square df 4 indicate that the well-known association of large tumor size and development of manifest metastasis be not explain by an increase frequency of genetically progress cancer cell in bone marrow .
 discussion .
 here we provide evidence that dissemination of tumor cell in mouse model of breast cancer as well as in the human disease can occur in preinvasive stage of tumor progression and that the number and genotype of seed tumor cell be not associate with tumor size .
 both finding should modify the prevail view that metastatic dissemination be a late event and that the association of tumor size and risk for metastasis reflect a high frequency of tumor cell seed .
 implicit in this view be the surmise that extend period of genetic progression within the primary tumor be require for metastatic dissemination which finding do not support .
 chromosomal aberration in dtcseither of the balb-neut mouse model or of human breast cancersare not associate with increase tumor size though they accumulate over time in human cancer as amply show by mitelman and heim .
 mouse model and human sample therefore concur on the observation that relative to the total number of tumor cell in the primary lesion dissemination be high early after transformation .
 interestingly in the balb-neut model activation of the proteolytic system in breast epithelia be associate with young age and adh .
 moreover a quantitative analysis of twist expression compare lesion with adh central and peripheral region of a large tumor and normal sample reveal a significant upregulation in early-transformed breast cancer cell exceed even expression level of the so-called invasion front of the primary tumor .
 twist expression have be associate with epithelial-mesenchymal transition migration invasion and cell-cycle deregulation stasinopoulos et and yang et .
 the activation of a specific genetic program early after sex-hormone-induced expression of the transform oncogene her-2 may thus initiate microinvasion which can be detect by transmission electron microscopy in breast lesion as early as in the stage of adh .
 this lesion be define as noninvasive and no evidence of invasion be detect after careful light-microscopic inspection by an experience pathologist .
 yet both the balb-neut and the pymt mouse harbored dtc in lung and bone marrow and cell in bone marrow during adh .
 evidence for malignant origin be provide by comparative genomic hybridization .
 an ectopic transgene expression at this site be exclude by the transplantation experiment where mammary graft grow on wild-type background .
 also here epithelial cell disseminate to bone marrow and lung at the stage of adh and display genetic aberration .
 the existence of a genetic program associate with dissemination but only transiently activate in early lesion might explain why in human breast cancer twist expression be rarely find in invasive ductal carcinoma .
 we perform several experiment to assess whether in mouse model early-disseminated cancer cell may give rise to metastasis .
 first growth of metastasis occur during transition of primary lesion from noninvasive to invasive which indicate that tumor cell have disseminate much early and start to grow at the distant site .
 second at week 18 when only in situ carcinoma be present resection of the gland neither prevent nor reduce the number of lung metastases .
 third dissemination and early lung colonization be find also in wild-type female that have only transiently carry a single transgenic mammary graft .
 at resection much graft display only very small invasive cancer .
 in one of two case where the transplant be surgically remove at the stage of adh the cell have start to form metastatic colony when analyzed 13 week after surgery .
 thus while the number of experiment be currently too low to quantify the frequency of manifest metastasis as consequence of adh it be safe to state that early-disseminated tumor cell occasionally have metastatic potential .
 however we note that the course of the disease in the transplant wild-type sibling be prolong as compare to the transgenic animal with autochthonous tumor .
 while in balb-neut female metastases be regularly present at week in wild-type mouse micro metastases appear only much than week after transplantation of a transgenic gland .
 at least two possibility may account for this observation although we transplant the mammary tissue before expression of the transgene into recipient mouse which should result into peripheral immunological tolerance we exclude that immunosurveillance against the rat transgene product slow down systemic cancer progression .
 alternatively surgical removal of the primary lesion at very early time point may deprive early-disseminated cancer cell from systemically act factor important for outgrowth .
 such factor secrete from the primary tumor may prepare the metastatic niche and foster early cancerous colony as recently suggest .
 thus large primary breast cancer in patient may support metastasis not by seed much cancer cell but by provide unknown systemically act factor that stimulate colonization of previously disseminate tumor cell at the ectopic site .
 this reasoning be back by finding that patient with small t1-stage tumor harbor similar number of disseminate cancer cell as patient with late stage tumor t3 to t4 present in cohort of patient .
 in a meta-analysis of several study on dtc in breast cancer employ however rather different technique for dtc detection but totaling much than patient braun and coworkers observe an increase of positive bone marrow sample from in stage t1 to in stage t3 .
 this datum give far support to the conclusion that large tumor in relation to small tumor seed far little tumor cell to bone marrow on average primary t3 tumor comprise about time much cancer cell than t1-stage tumor but the percentage of patient with dtc in bone marrow increase only marginally .
 thus the poor prognosis of patient with t3-stage breast cancer be explain by increased dtc number but so far unknown external trigger may be responsible for metastatic outgrowth that currently be rather underestimate .
 in this context it be noteworthy that while the high number of dtc in bone marrow during the lifetime of balb-neut mouse never exceed bone marrow cell transplantation of transgenic bone marrow contain a total of about tumor cell per inoculum take from 11-week-old balb-neut mouse and inject into irradiate wild-type animal result in bone marrow carcinosis with much than of all cell be of cancerous origin .
 since the donor bone marrow have be take from mouse with adh this suggest that the tumor cell may be release from dormancy or some type of quiescencepossibly as consequence of the stimulatory microenvironment during repopulation of the irradiate bone marrow compartmentand eventually grow out .
 though the finding of microinvasion at the stage of adh may not apply to all patient with breast cancer the detection itself of disseminate cancer cell in dcis suggest that conventional histopathological analysis may miss tumor spread in human cancer as well .
 although very rare metastasis in dcis patient have be observe despite complete resection of mammary tissue .
 other well-known clinical finding such as cancer of unknown primary as well as inadvertent transfer of cancer with organ transplant from donor with small undiagnosed malignant lesion be equally consistent with early dissemination and potential metastatic outgrowth .
 taken together finding suggest a concept of cancer progression accord to which metastatic dissemination be a distinct early step in cancer progression be necessary but not sufficient for metastatic outgrowth .
 the interaction of early-disseminated cancer cell with ectopic microenvironment lead to selection or adaptation within an early metastatic niche be ill understand at present and may require different experimental approach than the frequent use of cell line derived from late stage tumor .
 previous work and the present work demonstrate that essential step of genetic progression take place at the ectopic site and not within the primary tumor .
 the understanding of which mechanism promote the outgrowth of dtc often after extend period of cancer latency might be key to the prevention of the lethal metastases .
 experimental procedure mice .
 balb-neut and mmtv-pymt mouse transgenic mouse be maintain in facility accord the european union guideline .
 all animal experiment be perform accord to the eu and national institutional regulation .
 mice be screen at 3 to 4 week of age for hemizygosity neut and negative littermates serve as wild-type balb c mouse control .
 mammary gland of balb-neut female mouse be inspect twice a week and arise tumor be measure with caliper in two perpendicular diameter .
 tissue sample from transgenic mmtv-pymt mouse fvb strain be obtain from christoph peters and thomas reinheckel institute for molecular medicine university of freiburg .
 bone marrow preparation .
 after sterile preparation of both femur bone marrow be rinse with a 26-g needle in 1 ml of pbs .
 after density gradient centrifugation interphase cell be drop on adhesion slide menzel germany .
 at least cell per mouse be stain and positive cell be isolate use a micromanipulator .
 immunostaining .
 for the detection of disseminate cell anti-ck 8 and 18 gp11 progen germany and anti-her-2 c-erbb2 dianova germany antibody be use in a concentration of 5 g ml and visualize by abc complex ap dako denmark use the ap substrate bcip nbt biorad germany .
 for her-2 immunohistochemistry of solid tissue 5 m cryosections of primary tumor or lung tissue be stain .
 for mmp2 immunohistochemistry formaldehyde-fixed tissue be embed in paraffin wax .
 rabbit polyclonal anti-mmp-2 chemicon international be apply in a dilution .
 laser microdissection dna and mrna preparation .
 laser microdissection single-cell isolation and nucleic acid preparation for dna and mrna be perform as describe previously klein et klein et and schmidt-kittler et .
 small piece summing up to m2 for each sample be catapult into a cap with 6 l pcr oil and centrifuged into a l reaction tube for dna while for mrna analysis the tissue be catapult into reaction tube contain l paramagnetic oligo-dt bead suspension and lysis buffer dynal .
 quantitative pcr .
 real-time pcr be perform use a lightcycler roche and fast start master sybr green kit roche .
 analysis be do use the relquant software roche with pcr efficiency normalization and a reference sample include in every run .
 pooled mrna from tubo cell serve as positive control .
 measurement show unspecific product in the melt curve analysis be discard from far analysis .
 all expression level be give relative to gapdh primer sequence be provide in table s4 .
 comparative genomic hybridization image acquisition and analysis .
 murine control dna and tumor dna be labeled with biotin-16-dutp and digoxigenin-12- dutp roche germany respectively and detect after hybridization to metaphase chromosome use anti-dig-fitc fab fragments g ml roche germany and biotinylated normal dna by avidin-cy rockland usa .
 image be record by a leica dmxa-rf8 microscope leica acquisition program qfish equip with a sensys ccd camera photometrics usa .
 processing and karyotyping be do use the leica software package q-cgh .
 array hybridization and analysis .
 after global mrna amplification pcr-amplified cdna fragment be digoxigenin labeled and nonradioactively hybridize to nylon filter .
 scanning and significance analysis sam be perform as publish tusher et and zohlnhofer et .
 the clustering of protease be do for the euclidean distance complete linkage for protease and average linkage for case .
 cluster assessment be perform use brb arraytools develop by richard simon and amy peng .
 calculation of tumor progression over time .
 tumor area be calculate from mammary gland of 41 mouse assume the shape of an ellipse circle for each tumor .
 the tumor size area of a mammary gland without a tumor be set to zero .
 the curve be fit use friedman 's scatterplot smooth .
 cell from 31 sample 28 mouse and cell from 33 sample 31 mouse be calculate as the sum of single disseminate cell and the number of aggregate .
 measurement from similar time point 1 week be consolidated .
 an offset of week be use to draw and cell in one plot .
 the number of and cell from nontransgenic balb c mouse be measure in 25 mouse ck and 24 mouse her-2 at five time point week 4 9 18 22 and 29 and connect by a dot line .
 the area of lung metastases be measure use the palm robo software and calculate as sum of all metastases find .
 value be average over two tissue section .
 the size of metastases be measure from four mouse with and 14 mouse without surgery and measurement from similar time point 2 week be consolidated .
 surgery of mammary tumor .
 mice be anaesthetize with ketamin mg and xylazin 5 mg sufficient for min .
 thorax and abdomen be shave skin be incise from caudal to cranial in the midline and subcutaneous tissue be prepare the breast gland together with fatty tissue and resected in toto after coagulation of vessel .
 the skin be close by a suture use prolene ethicon germany .
 surgery take usually min and mouse be keep under a warming lamp until awaken .
 postoperative analgesia be achieve by 25 mg metamizol every 4 hr .
 after 8 day suture be remove .
 tissue transplantation .
 surgical technique and the transplantation procedure have be previously describe daniel et 1968 and deome et 1959 .
 briefly the nipple region from the fourth fat pad on the right side of 3-week-old recipient balb c mouse be remove under anesthesia .
 then a piece of donor mammary tissue approximately 1 to 2 mm in size from 3- to 12-week-old balb-neut mouse be implant in the clear mammary fat pad of recipient mouse .
 bone marrow transplantation .
 eleven week-old balb-neut mouse be euthanized and bone marrow be harvest from femur and tibia .
 7-9 x bone marrow cell inject into the tail vein of 11 week-old lethally irradiate split dose day 2 and day rad wild-type sibling .
 from the remain bone marrow slide be prepare as describe above to determine tumor load by ck staining .
 analysis of breast cancer patient .
 from previous study on disseminate breast cancer cell we include all nonmetastatic patient t1-4 for which information on t-stage be available and four patient with dcis .
 cytokeratin-positive cell be detect and isolate for genetic analysis and dna be amplify for comparative genomic hybridization as describe before .
 in addition 298 breast cancer patient with unilateral primary breast cancer t1 t4 n2 and 35 patient with dcis undergo surgery at the department of oncology and obstetrics university of tbingen germany be include .
 bone marrow sampling preparation staining and screening be perform accord to the consensus protocol for the detection of disseminate cancer cell apply the mab a45-b b3 antibody micromet germany .
 all bone marrow sample be take with the approval of local ethic committee and after obtain inform consent of the patient .
 data for the control group of normal individual include 191 patient with nonmalignant disease 153 patient with benign lesion of the breast such as fibroadenoma mastitis abscess and cyst 11 with simple cyst with cystadenoma of the ovary and 17 with cervical intraepithelial neoplasm of grade i or ii be take from the study of .
 acknowledgment .
 we gratefully acknowledge the generous help of bernd wiederanders for provide us the mouse cdna array and thomas reinheckel and christoph peters for help with the pymt mouse .
 we thank andrea bol for excellent animal care and melanie werner-klein for help with bone marrow transplantation experiment .
 the etiology of breast cancer be complex but several risk factor have be identify .
 numerous epidemiological and laboratory study have reveal the effect of dietary pattern food group as well as single nutrient and other nutritional determinant on sporadic breast cancer risk .
 much breast cancer be consider sporadic with only 5 estimate to be due to inherit susceptibility .
 individual who have sporadic breast cancer may not inherit cancer-causing mutation from parent .
 instead certain cell undergo mutation that lead to cancer .
 this mutation can be cause by sun exposure to radiation certain chemical or other as yet unknown factor .
 in the case of hereditary cancer tumor cell usually contain some mutation that be not find elsewhere in the body but also harbor a critical mutation that every cell share .
 people born with a cancer-related mutation be much likely to develop cancer especially at a young age than those without an inherit mutation .
 autosomal dominant alteration in two gene brca1 on chromosome 17 and brca2 on chromosome 13 be likely to account for familial case of early-onset breast cancer .
 other suspect genetic factor be germ-line mutation in tp53 mutation in the cell cycle-checkpoint kinase gene chek2 as well as pten .
 in general the role of nutritional factor in the etiology of breast cancer remain controversial .
 a number of dietary factor include the consumption of fruit and vegetable dairy product meat poultry and fish dietary pattern feature high intake of fat or combination of essential fatty acid and antioxidant vitamin have be intensively assess in relation to breast cancer risk .
 the objective of this paper be to provide an overview on the effect of consumption of certain food group on breast cancer risk among gene mutation carrier woman who inherit an alter form of a gene as well as those with sporadic breast cancer .
 table 1 provide and overview to some study that be representative of the review literature in this paper .
 table .
 selected study representative of the literature review .
 nutritional factorsauthortype of studynumber of subjectsoutcome of breast cancer risk fruits and meta-analysis 5 cohort 21 case-control ci meta-analysis eight cohort ci van cohort epic ci dairy eight large prospective ci meta-analysis paper publish 1966 case over controlsrr ci parodi no statistical analysis be show in this study .
 eight large prospective ci nurse health study prospective ci case-control study114 case controlsor ci prospective ci prospective ci total cohort study national breast screening study nbss ci case-control study89 case 48 controlsrr ci total case-control study414 case 429 controlsor ci meta-analysis paper publish from 1966 to case over controlsrr ci saturated meta-analysis12 case-control studiesor p prospective ci case-control controlsor ci meta-analysis17 case-control study and 8 cohort studiesrr ci case-control study414 case 429 controlsor ci prospective study nurse health study ii ci vitamin and prospective study nurse health study ii a rr ci vitamin c rr ci vitamin e rr ci clinical study777 premenopausal and 783 postmenopausalpremenopausal woman vitamin d and calcium breast density p .
 prospective study epic ci case-control case 237 controlsor ci nested case-control study383 case 383 controlsor ci full-size table .
 view within article .
 method .
 to identify study on the relationship between nutrition and breast cancer among sporadic case and gene mutation carrier a literature search be conduct in the follow electronic database current contents institute for scientific information philadelphia pa and medline national library for medicine bethesda md for the year 1999 .
 the publication consider be those reporting on the consumption of fruit and vegetable dairy product meat poultry fish total energy total fat fatty acid vitamin mineral and phytoestrogen in relation to breast cancer risk .
 also study be choose accord to sample size standard methodology and publish from know institution .
 other paper cite in relevant article be also examine .
 dietary factor and breast cancer .
 fruits and vegetable .
 many fruit and vegetable contain protective substance such as fiber antioxidant vitamin mineral and other potentially anticarcinogenic compound include dithiolthiones isothiocyanate indole-3-carbinol flavonol and ligans among other association between fruit and vegetable intake and breast cancer risk have be the subject of many case-control and a limited number of cohort study .
 an extensive summary by the world cancer research fund conclude that vegetable intake and breast cancer risk have protective association .
 in a meta-analysis of woman a low breast cancer risk relative risk rr ci confidence interval be find for high versus low consumption of vegetable with a non-significant decrease risk .
 in contrast a recent prospective study of woman over 5 year show no evidence of a protective effect of fruit and vegetable on breast cancer risk .
 pooled analysis of eight cohort study include woman reveal only weak non-significant association between fruit and vegetable and breast cancer risk .
 no association be establish for green leafy vegetable eight botanical group and specific fruit and vegetable .
 this result suggest that fruit and vegetable consumption be not significantly associate with reduce breast cancer risk .
 moreover pool project be subject to publication bias a weakness often arise from heavy reliance on publish study show only significant datum while non-significant finding be little likely to be publish when interpret the outcome of meta-analysis .
 in addition although statistical analysis be perform on the original datum in a standardized way the dietary assessment methodology apply may be different .
 for instance in the meta-analysis of all study use a food frequency questionnaire ffq .
 the ffq be characterize by several inaccuracy which will be discuss later in this overview but cohort study that implement 24 h diet recall either overestimate or underestimate dietary intake .
 it be argue that the absence of any association of vegetable and fruit intake with cancer risk be due to insufficiently-accurate method for measure diet .
 however one of the advantage of meta-analysis and cohort study in general be the large sample size .
 even so the strength of relationship be dilute by look at food group as a whole .
 in addition there be some evidence that the protective effect of fruit and vegetable be strong in woman with a family history of breast cancer or woman with estrogen receptor er -positive tumor .
 dairy product .
 cohort study of dairy food and breast cancer have yield conflict result with inverse association between milk and breast cancer find in several recent investigation .
 as part of a meta-analysis on dietary fat and breast cancer risk concentrate on two dairy category milk 16 study and cheese 12 study and detect no significant association with breast cancer .
 conduct a pool analysis on subject from the pooling project of prospective study of diet and cancer .
 no relationship be note between dairy product and breast cancer risk .
 recently moorman and terry summarize the result of cohort and 36 case-control study that have evaluate the association between dairy product consumption and breast cancer risk .
 they conclude that the available epidemiological evidence do not support a strong association between the consumption of milk or other dairy product and the risk of breast cancer .
 in the nurse health study ii conduct among premenopausal high consumption of low-fat dairy product have a non-significant inverse association with breast cancer risk rr ci .
 however while total dairy intake be not associate with the risk of breast cancer high-fat dairy intake be positively associate with risk rr ci for serving per day complicate interpretation of the result .
 another recent examination of the datum from much than case-control study and 12 cohort study also do not support an association between dairy product consumption and breast cancer risk .
 in other research that address theory of an association between dairy product consumption and breast cancer via fat insulin growth factor-1 igf-1 growth hormone gh and estrogen the weight of evidence do not support the propose link .
 although estrogen and the gh igf-1 axis play a critical role in mammary gland development and breast cancer the mechanism be complex and cancer be probably influence much by autocrine paracrine secretion than by circulate hormone level since it be believe that the daily contribution of this factor from dairy product consumption be far too small to exert a physiological effect compare to daily endogenous secretion .
 both calcium and vitamin d be important in the regulation of cell growth .
 in addition vitamin d through active metabolite dihydroxy vitamin d3 be essential for calcium homeostasis and absorption into cell .
 animal study suggest that hyperproliferation and hyperplasia in mammary epithelial cell can be reduce by dietary calcium and vitamin d .
 there be a number of possible mechanism for the antiproliferative action of calcium .
 for example calcium may neutralize fatty acid and mutagenic bile acid which can rapidly pass from the intestine to the breast where they can affect er and induce estrogen-regulated protein in a manner similar to estradiol .
 it be also know that increase breast density be strongly link with breast cancer risk and recent research have reveal that augment intake of calcium and vitamin d be associate with decrease breast density .
 the presence of rumenic vaccenic butyric and branch chain fatty acid bcfas cysteine-rich whey protein calcium and vitamin d in milk may reduce breast cancer risk .
 rumenic acid ra be the predominant natural isomer of conjugate linoleic acid and milk fat be rich natural source .
 vaccenic acid va the major trans-monounsaturated fatty acid trans-mufa in milk fat can be convert to ra in animal and human .
 in normal rat mammary epithelial cell ra have be observe to inhibit cell growth and induce apoptosis .
 at physiological concentration ra va and milk fat all stop cell growth in breast cancer cell .
 the anti-tumor action of ra may be mediate by the induction of apoptosis and the inhibition of angiogenesis associate with decrease serum and glandular level of vascular endothelial growth factor and receptor flk-1 .
 bcfas be synthesize by rumen bacterium and iso- and anti-iso-bcfas particularly those with a chain length of 13 17 carbon atom be find in milk fat .
 initially report that 13 methyltetradecanoic acid also induce cell death in human breast cancer cell by the rapid induction of apoptosis .
 recently test the anti-tumor activity of a series of iso-bcfas in two human breast cancer cell line .
 they find that bcfas slightly inhibit fatty acid synthetase and acetyl-coa carboxylase while significantly supressing glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase the main nadph-generating system in breast cancer cell .
 thus study suggest that bcfas synthetically low fatty acid biosynthesis by reduce precursor in addition to direct inhibitory effect on fatty acid synthetase .
 butyric acid ba present only in milk fat be a potent anti-cancer agent that induce differentiation and apoptosis and inhibit proliferation and angiogenesis .
 in the case of milk fat butyrate be esterified as a triacylglycerol and about one-third of all milk fat triglycerides contain butyrate .
 thus although butyrate have a short half-life in the circulation it can be increase when present as small compound .
 also synergy with other dietary anti-cancer agent like vitamin a vitamin d and resveratrol reduce the plasma concentration of butyrate require to modulate cell growth .
 two study show that dietary butyrate significantly inhibit chemically induce mammary tumor development in rat .
 evidence from animal and in vitro study of human breast cancer cell indicate that milk protein especially those associate with the whey fraction have anti-carcinogenic property .
 whey protein be a rich source of cysteine which be essential for the synthesis of glutathione a potent cellular antioxidant that act on own or as a detoxifying agent via relate enzyme facilitate the elimination of mutagen carcinogen and other xenobiotics from the body .
 the lead current hypothesis that dairy product may reduce breast cancer risk be based on vitamin d content .
 few food naturally contain significant amount of vitamin d and vitamin d in dairy product be mostly the result of fortification .
 although the fortification of dairy product cereal and other foodstuff be common the type of product fortify and the amount of vitamin d add vary between country .
 this difference indicate that study from country with different regulation and practice regard vitamin d fortification be not strictly comparable .
 if vitamin d be the component of dairy product that influence breast cancer risk comparison should take into account not only the specific dairy product but also the level of vitamin d fortification .
 overall the publish study review here do not provide consistent evidence of an association between dairy product consumption and breast cancer risk .
 meat poultry and .
 meat .
 several study have examine the relationship between meat and breast cancer risk with conflict result .
 in a meta-analysis on woman no significant association be find between intake of total meat red meat white meat and breast cancer risk .
 on the contrary a case-control study among taiwanese woman case and 219 control disclose an increase risk of breast cancer with an intake of much than 196 g of beef and pork per week the odd ratio or be and ci .
 moreover a recent study be perform by in a cohort of woman reveal large effect size in postmenopausal woman for all meat type with significant association for total process and red meat consumption .
 processed meat show the strong hazard ratio hr ci for high consumption compare with none .
 both pre- and postmenopausal woman who consume the much meat g day have the high risk of breast cancer hr ci .
 all meat be not only compose of fat and protein but also contain essential nutrient vitamin a vitamin b12 and micronutrients for which they be the major source this be due either to high concentration or great bioavailability folate selenium zinc .
 regional difference have be discern not only in meat component but also in preparation .
 in western country meat be mainly fried grilled or barbecue whereas boil or steam meat preparation dominate in asian and african country .
 during fry the concentration of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon increase markedly .
 therefore a g steak contain g of benzopyrene whereas only g of this compound be find in g of boil meat .
 in the retrospective iowa women 's health study an innovative method for determine meat-preparation technique involve a series of color photograph that represent a range of meat cooking level from extremely rare to very well-done the risk of develop breast cancer be observe to be significantly great in woman prefer meat well-done compare to those favour medium cook or raw meat .
 recent datum indicate that heterocyclic amine from well-done steak increase the breast cancer risk only in the presence of a genetic polymorphism with high activity n-acetyltransferases or homozygous deletion of glutathione s-transferase mi or t1 gene .
 recently assess red meat intake and breast cancer risk among premenopausal woman in the nurse health study ii .
 during 12 year of follow-up of premenopausal woman they note that greater red meat intake be strongly relate to an elevate risk of breast cancer that be estrogen and progesterone receptor-positive but not to those that be er and pr .
 the rr for breast cancer be ci for woman eat much than 3 5 serving per week compare to those eat three or fewer serving per week of red meat .
 the rr be ci for much than five serving per week and ci for 1 or fewer serving per day .
 finally the rr be ci for much than serving per day test for trend p .
 there be no association for er pr breast cancer .
 several biological mechanism may explain the positive association between red meat intake and hormone receptor-positive breast cancer risk .
 first heterocyclic amine be estrogenic and can stimulate er-dependent gene expression as well as pr expression in vitro .
 animal study have show that heterocyclic amine elevate serum prolactin level .
 second exogenous hormone treatment of cattle for growth promotion which be ban in european country but not in the united state be a concern .
 although the long-term health effect of hormone residue in beef have not be investigate theoretically they may preferentially affect hormone receptor-positive tumor .
 third red meat be a source of heme iron a highly bioavailable form of iron and a major source of store body iron which have be find to enhance estrogen-induced tumor .
 finally it have be postulate that fat intake may highten breast cancer risk by augment circulate estrogen level .
 poultry .
 two publish cohort study have conclude that there be no association between poultry consumption and breast cancer risk .
 on the other hand a case-control study 114 case and control note a decrease breast cancer risk or ci 53 versus 21 g day .
 the protective effect of white meat consumption may be that the amino acid content of white meat support well immune function thereby enhance tumor surveillance at high level of intake .
 however far study be need to confirm the protective effect of white meat .
 fish .
 in vitro and animal study have show inhibitory effect of marine n-3 fatty acid on breast cancer growth .
 several epidemiological investigation have examine the association between fish consumption and breast cancer risk in human .
 in a review of seven cohort and 19 case-control study on fish consumption marine n-3 fatty acid and breast cancer risk have report inconsistent result .
 some author have find no association while other have suggest a decrease risk with high consumption of fish or n-3 fatty acid and still other have postulate an inverse association only for subgroup define by menopausal and er status .
 one of the study include in the review detect a slightly elevate risk of breast cancer rr ci associate with high dietary marine n-3 fatty acid in a cohort of woman .
 record a significantly reduce risk of breast cancer rr ci with high consumption of fish and marine n-3 fatty acid .
 similarly a significant inverse association between fish intake and breast cancer risk be observe in japanese woman 2385 breast cancer case in the reference group or ci .
 examine the association between fatty and lean fish and breast cancer risk in a large nation-wide case-control study in sweden find only a weak and non-significant inverse association with fish and breast cancer and no clear difference in outcome by fish species .
 in a study of norwegian woman there be no association between salmon consumption and breast cancer risk .
 note a positive association with 25 g of daily total fish intake and breast cancer risk rr ci but no difference in association be detect by type of fish or preparation method and it be suggest that factor in fish other than n-3 fat be responsible for this observation .
 recently find no evidence of an association between fish intake and breast cancer risk rr ci in a study sample of woman at recruitment into the european prospective investigation into cancer and nutrition with follow-up .
 a limitation of much study on fish consumption and breast cancer risk be that they do not distinguish between lean and fatty fish .
 lean fish contain only small amount of n-3 fatty acid since much of the fat be store in the liver of this fish .
 if there be a beneficial effect of n-3 fatty acid it may be that an association be only apparent for fatty fish consumption .
 furthermore if indeed there be a protective effect of fish consumption on breast cancer risk it may also be counterbalance by the harmful impact of contaminants .
 fish may be contaminate with substance present in the environment such as heavy metal and pesticide which may have estrogenic effect .
 the influence of pesticide on breast cancer risk be evaluate in a recent review of human epidemiological study .
 a limitation in this review be the differ level of detail available from the questionnaire use to assess fish consumption in the different research center or country which make it difficult to distinguish between different type of fish and fish product .
 the same be true for cooking method and the way fish be consume with sauce breadcrumb smoke salt .
 moreover there be additional consideration in fish intake .
 fish be the good dietary source of vitamin d and a good source of other vitamin vitamin a and b mineral calcium phosphorus iron and trace element selenium iodine zinc .
 any of this component be associate with breast cancer risk .
 vitamin d calcium and selenium be hypothesized to play a beneficial role in reduce breast cancer risk calcium and vitamin d have be show to interact in promote growth inhibition in breast cancer cell .
 moreover selenium be an antioxidant and as such be also effective in reduce breast cancer risk by inhibit cancer-associated angiogenesis .
 in view of this factor clear evidence have not yet emerge for an association between fish consumption and breast cancer risk .
 total energy .
 a number of experimental and epidemiological investigation have assess the relationship between energy intake and breast cancer .
 in a cohort study in canada observe a increase risk of breast cancer in premenopausal woman who have a daily total energy intake of kcal or much .
 based upon a case-control study in shanghai with 1459 case and 1556 control report an increase in premenopausal breast cancer risk among woman who consume total energy intake much than kcal per day compare to those who consume kcal per day .
 recently in a case-control study among french canadian with 89 case and 48 control a positive association be find between total energy intake and brca-related breast cancer risk or ci among woman consume 2339 kcal day compare to those who consume 1724 kcal day .
 this result be independent of age body mass index bmi and physical activity .
 in addition consistent evidence from experimental animal study indicate that energy restriction lead to in a highly-reproducible and dose-response inhibition of induce breast cancer .
 a restriction of energy intake can reduce mammary tumor by .
 although both study mention above concentrate on different population and different sample size they detect a positive association between high energy intake and breast cancer risk .
 several mechanism have be propose by which energy restriction can decrease breast cancer risk .
 there be evidence that the effect of dietary restriction be mediate via change in the availability of igf-1 that in turn inhibit tumor development by decrease cell proliferation .
 a low-energy diet have be show to suppress estrogen secretion and therefore attenuate mammary tumor development .
 furthermore it may lead to decrease free radical production in the mitochondria and with reduce oxidative stress inflammation be diminish .
 energy restriction also reduce the dna replication and enhance the rate of apoptosis thus diminish tissue susceptibility to carcinogen .
 total fat .
 preclinical and human ecological study have suggest an association between increase dietary fat intake and breast cancer risk cohort study reveal little consistent effect .
 for instance a case-control study 414 case and 429 control find no association between breast cancer and dietary fat intake .
 similarly observational study on the influence of dietary fat on breast cancer recurrence have produce mix result .
 the variable association may be due to difference of fat intake in the study population difficulty in accurately measure fat intake with diet-assessment method and high correlation between dietary fat and other diet and lifestyle variable .
 much investigator assume that any observe tumor-enhancing effect of dietary fat need to be adjust statistically for energy intake .
 however this be not a straightforward issue because a change in fat composition of the diet may cause alteration in energy intake .
 thus high energy intake result from change in fat intake may be consider as one of the mechanism by which fat affect tumor development .
 dietary fat may also play a role in the development of breast cancer via hormone metabolism .
 this may be particularly relevant for er-positive cancer as an elevation of endogenous estrogen level with increase fat intake be think to be relate to breast cancer .
 alternatively any role for dietary fat in breast cancer may be little direct .
 for example high-fat diet may lead to great body mass or obesity a probable risk factor for postmenopausal breast cancer .
 in postmenopausal woman high-fat intake may increase level of bioavailable estrogen thus elevate the risk of breast cancer .
 furthermore higher-fat intake in childhood or adolescence may promote fast growth and early onset of menarche both establish risk factor for breast cancer .
 fatty .
 saturated fat .
 giving much weight to prospective study find no relationship between saturate fat intake and breast cancer risk in subject from the japan collaborative cohort study .
 on the other hand combine analysis of 12 case-control study reveal an increase risk of postmenopausal breast cancer with high saturate fat intake give an overall or of p for the uppermost quintile of intake this estimate be adjust for total fat intake which be also associate with increase risk .
 in view of the relationship between breast cancer and food high in saturate fat such as meat and dairy product .
 it may be that the observe association between breast cancer and saturate fat in some study may be due to some component in meat other than saturate fat or to risk-augmenting food preparation method .
 on the other hand the observe association for meat consumption may reflect a true effect of saturate fat .
 mufas .
 olive oil be a rich source of mufas and in case-control study it have be show that the risk of breast cancer be decrease with the consumption of much than 1 tsp of olive oil per day or ci .
 antioxidant present in olive oil such as vitamin e have be suggest to be one of the protective constituent .
 however a meta-analysis of 17 case-control and eight cohort study find no association between mufas and breast cancer risk .
 the relationship between mufas intake and breast cancer risk appear to depend on the contribute food .
 polyunsaturated fatty acid pufa conduct a case-control study of 414 case and 429 population-based control and observe no overall association between pufa and breast cancer risk .
 similarly a combine analysis of 12 case-control study indicate no statistically significant association between postmenopausal breast cancer risk and pufa intake .
 moreover another cohort study note a similar absence of association .
 diet high in pufa may not be link with breast cancer risk independently of any contribution to total fat intake .
 thus contrary to datum from animal experiment human study do not show an increase of breast cancer risk with pufa intake .
 estimating the risk associate with pufa intake remain difficult as food composition table for this fatty acid be incomplete .
 vitamin and mineral .
 because of antioxidant property dietary carotenoids and vitamin c and e can neutralize reactive oxygen species reduce oxidative dna damage and genetic mutation and may also enhance host immunological function .
 all this reaction help to protect against breast carcinogenesis .
 preformed vitamin a retinol and retinyl ester be involve in cell differentiation and certain carotenoids -carotene -carotene and -cryptoxanthin in fruit and vegetable can be metabolize to retinol .
 case-control study of diet and breast cancer support a weak protective effect of carotenoids rather than preformed vitamin a .
 in a cohort study of woman demonstrate that consumption of fruit and vegetable high in specific carotenoids and vitamin a c and e may reduce breast cancer rr ci .
 on the other hand a cohort study by find no evidence that high intake of vitamin a c and e diminish the risk of breast cancer .
 vitamin d and calcium be emerge as promising chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic agent for breast cancer .
 aside from supplement vitamin d be find in certain food good natural source be fish oil egg yolk liver and vitamin d-fortified food such as milk and some margarine and obtain by exposure to uv light after conversion of 7 dehydrocholesterol in the skin .
 furthermore recent datum from the nurse health study suggest that among premenopausal woman dietary vitamin d might protect against breast cancer independently of sun exposure and intake of milk and constituent include calcium .
 vitamin d also play a major role in calcium homeostasis .
 calcium be an important mineral find primarily in dairy product .
 cellular proliferation and differentiation can be modulate by calcium and this cell function be also involve in carcinogenesis .
 cohort and case-control study have suggest that calcium intake may be associate with decrease breast cancer risk .
 on the other hand find no association with vitamin d and breast density both among premenopausal and postmenopausal woman .
 however note that increase in vitamin d and calcium intake be associate with decrease in breast density up to p suggest that augment dietary vitamin d and calcium reduce breast cancer risk through change in breast tissue morphology .
 however this remain a controversial issue .
 phytoestrogens .
 the intake of phytoestrogen be much high among asian woman compare with woman live in the western world .
 hence the role of genetic be probably relatively small compare to environmental and lifestyle factor such as dietary habit .
 it have therefore be hypothesized that high phytoestrogen intake protect against breast cancer .
 estrogen and estradiol in particular be know to have strong mitogenic property .
 experimental and epidemiological study on circulate estrogen level and breast cancer have indicate increase risk with high level of both estrone and estradiol although only in postmenopausal woman .
 they can however also compete with endogenous estrogen for er and in this way inhibit binding of the much potent endogenous estrogen .
 it have be postulate that in situation with low circulate level of endogenous estrogen phytoestrogen may act as weak estrogen but have an antiestrogenic effect in environment with high circulate level of endogenous estrogen .
 hence they protect against premenopausal breast cancer and increase breast cancer risk after menopause .
 prospective study on soy intake and breast cancer risk have find no significant protective effect of high intake .
 enterolactone mammalian lignan and genistein isoflavone concentration in plasma sample of premenopausal case and 237 age-matched control from a population-based case-control study in germany show that median plasma enterolactone concentration in case and control be and nmol l respectively and median genistein concentration be and nmol l respectively .
 premenopausal breast cancer risk decrease with increase plasma enterolactone concentration .
 overall or be ci and ci p for trend for woman with the third and fourth quartile of plasma enterolactone compare to those in the low quartile .
 there be no association between plasma genistein concentration and premenopausal breast cancer risk .
 no direct association be demonstrate either by den in urinary isoflavone level of postmenopausal woman .
 prospective epidemiological study assess circulate or urinary excretion level of lignan also give conflict result and in premenopausal woman both increase and decrease breast cancer risk be report .
 recently a nest case-control study with 383 case and 383 control show that for genistein the or be ci indicate around decrease risk .
 comparable protective effect although not statistically significant be see for the other isoflavone while lignan level do not appear to be relate to breast cancer risk .
 the result be similar in both premenopausal and postmenopausal woman .
 isoflavone and lignan level in plasma be measure and isotope-dilution liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry incorporating triple 13c-labeled standard be perform for all analysis .
 no clear explanation can be advance for the oppose effect of isoflavone absence of association between isoflavone and breast cancer v s decrease risk of breast cancer with isoflavone in study by and .
 it may be that serum level of isoflavone aside from own effect be also marker for other dietary compound soy protein and non-enzymatic antioxidant .
 in addition variant of gene involve in the metabolism of sex steroid hormone may be important for the effect of phytoestrogen on breast cancer risk .
 for example decrease breast cancer risk in woman with high dietary genistein intake and in woman with high plasma concentration of lignan be observe for a certain variant of cyp17 gene in a case-control study of 267 premenopausal breast cancer patient and 573 control .
 the hypothesis that phytoestrogen protect against breast cancer in situation of high circulate level of endogenous estrogen in premenopausal woman but increase risk in environment with relatively low level of endogenous estrogen after menopause be not generally support by the result of prospective study publish so far .
 furthermore because endogenous estrogen level severely decrease after menopause the excess circulate level of phytoestrogen over circulate estradiol level be much large in postmenopausal compare to premenopausal woman .
 hence competition between phytoestrogen and estradiol may be much effective after menopause .
 moreover in obese postmenopausal woman estrogen be convert into active form in body fat thus there be a high circulation of estrogen level .
 however phytoestrogen with antiestrogenic effect through competitive binding to er consequently diminish the binding of stronger endogenous estrogen to er .
 through this mechanism dietary phytoestrogen may attenuate the adverse outcome of obesity on the development of postmenopausal breast cancer .
 circulating level of isoflavone in woman live in western country be much low than in asian woman .
 however compare endogenous estrogen with phytoestrogen level from western woman show that phytoestrogen level be time high than endogenous estrogen .
 hence an effect can be expect even at low circulate level of isoflavone similar to that observe in european and american population .
 other propose mechanism of action of phytoestrogen such as the scavenge of free radical and the induction of apoptosis and tyrosine kinase activity may also result in decrease breast cancer risk .
 however some of this effect be only note in in vitro experiment with much high phytoestrogen level than those report in in vivo study .
 inhibition of aromatic enzyme however be describe with level that can be reach on a phytoestrogen-enriched diet .
 this effect be particularly interesting after menopause when no estrogen be produce by the ovary and the aromatic conversion of androgen in fat tissue be the main pathway of estrogen synthesis .
 according to the national cancer institute 's surveillance epidemiology and end result registry evidence for the potential health benefit of phytoestrogen be increase as the use of hormone replacement therapy have decrease .
 discussion of methodological issue .
 epidemiological study may harbor bias that influence outcome .
 bias result from the dietary assessment method employ .
 while cohort and prospective study have typically employ 24 h recall diet record or ffq much case-control study have administer ffq to retrospectively assess dietary pattern or consumption frequency of food nutrient or food group believe to be relate to the etiology of the disease under investigation .
 when interpret this datum several factor must be consider .
 much importantly the assessment of diet and outcome in relation to cancer risk be subject to bias for example subject may not accurately report food consumption or a ffq food list may be miss key dietary element .
 moreover different dietary assessment method may yield different result and no standard have be develop which permit the detection of association between the consumption of food product and breast cancer risk with certainty .
 method use in epidemiological study include ffq and dietary record or food diary have achieve only modest validity and some misclassification of intake be unavoidable .
 however the result be generally take to be indicative of dietary pattern and ffq diet recall and food record remain reliable method in epidemiological study .
 another challenge when evaluate which food or nutrient be relate to disease risk be the high co-linearity among food and nutrient in the diet result from typically-observed food combination .
 for instance person with a high consumption of butter cheese and other high-fat dairy product may also be much likely to consume large amount of meat or other high-fat food that contribute to an increase risk of breast cancer .
 even when total energy intake be control in the analysis it may be impossible to completely separate the effect of dairy intake for example from those of other dietary factor include the intake of various type of fat .
 conversely person may consume low-fat milk and other dairy product as part of an overall healthy diet that be also high in fruit and vegetable and low in fat .
 once again it may be difficult to separate the effect of a particular food product from those of other food group that alter breast cancer risk .
 it be noteworthy that relatively few study have adjust for dietary factor other than alcohol consumption and total energy intake in analysis of fruit and vegetable dairy product meat poultry and fish fatty acid vitamin mineral and phytoestrogen as risk or protective factor in breast cancer etiology .
 this add to the difficulty inherent in compare study accord to the dietary variable consider in the analysis .
 nonetheless the result of study that have adjust estimate for a wide range of potentially-confounding variable include alcohol consumption cigarette-smoking oral contraceptive use parity family history of breast cancer age at menopause age at first birth bmi and parity do not differ systematically from those of study that do not adjust for many or all of this factor .
 adjustment for covariate within study often do not appreciably alter the crude estimate for consumption of a particular food .
 however adjustment be necessary to confirm the significance of the result .
 variation in the level of food consumption report by different population be another important consideration when evaluate epidemiological datum .
 no standard method be currently available for categorize intake level of a particular food product type of fruit and vegetable cheese meat fish oil .
 average intake vary considerably between population such that a level of consumption that be consider high in one population might be low in another .
 consequently many researcher have very understandably make comparison based on quintile of intake within specific study population .
 on the other hand approach take in epidemiological investigation may affect finding link breast cancer and nutrition .
 for example as state early a major limitation of case-control study be the recall bias of exposure among case who may over-report food that they believe may have contribute to diagnosis and under-report healthy food that they believe may have prevent disease .
 this bias rr far from the null value than would be observe in prospective study of the same relationship .
 selection bias may result from distortion of evidence or datum that arise from the way that they be collect .
 such bias may be drive by the eagerness of case to find the cause of disease and likely contribute to high participation rate than control in epidemiological study .
 in addition control who participate may be much health-conscious and perhaps consume much fruit and vegetable and little fat than those who refuse to take part in such study .
 the effect of recall and selection bias be not trivial and lead to apparent inverse association with fruit and vegetable and positive association with dietary fat .
 finally difference in finding from epidemiological study may be due to dissimilarity in study population follow-up duration the choice of nutrient database and the range of nutrient intake capture by ffq .
 moreover identify the role and extent of dietary habit in the development of disease be usually easy and much efficient when compare and contrast culturally-heterogeneous population ethnic group with lifestyle difference .
 however this be rarely do because of logistical or practical issue among group with wide variation in the food they eat .
 conclusion .
 since breast cancer may have latent initiation genetic environment diet and lifestyle therefore should be consider as potential factor in etiology .
 numerous study have test theory of association between dairy product consumption and breast cancer risk via the role play by fat from the dairy product in relation to igf-1 gh and estrogen .
 although estrogen and the gh igf-1 axis play a critical role in mammary gland development the mechanism be complex and cancer be probably influence much by autocrine paracrine secretion than by circulate level .
 nevertheless the daily contribution of this factor from dairy product consumption be far too small to exert a physiological effect compare to daily endogenous secretion .
 the presence of ra va ba and bcfas cysteine-rich whey protein calcium and vitamin d in milk have the potential to help prevent breast cancer .
 although an omnivorous diet per se do not elevate breast cancer risk broil or deep-fried meat be rule out as risk factor in genetically-susceptible individual .
 while the evidence do not point to an overall protective effect of high fruit and vegetable consumption speculation remain over potentially anticarcinogenic agent present in fruit and vegetable include numerous micronutrients such as carotenoids vitamin c and e and flavonoid .
 in essence regional difference in breast cancer incidence be likely to be partially attributable to environmental risk factor particularly life-long dietary habit .
 it do not appear advisable at this time to counsel woman to adopt a dietary pattern from a low-risk region in the world the mediterranean diet to protect themselves against breast cancer .
 traditional western diet also have beneficial ingredient that should be regular constituent in meal .
 from this overview it can be conclude that fruit and vegetable low-fat dairy product fish mufas pufa vitamin d calcium and phytoestrogen may protect against the risk of breast cancer .
 however far research be need to well understand dietary contribution and the underlie nutrient constituent in this disease .
 the ultimate goal of such research be to contribute to novel prevention strategy and to decrease the number of woman at risk for develop breast cancer .
 conflict of interest .
 none declare .
 acknowledgment .
 funding for this study be receive from the montreal cancer institute .
 the author acknowledge the editorial assistance of ovid da silva research support office research centre chum montreal quebec canada .
 it allow radiotherapy at a short distance with the radioisotope place on in or near the malignant tissue or site of resection with little adverse effect to adjacent healthy organ .
 two type of device be currently use in breast cancer a multi-catheter system in which catheter be surgically insert into the tumor bed and the mammosite system which utilize a balloon end catheter surgically place in the tumor bed .
 despite the advantage it offer brachytherapy be hamper by the relatively complicate placement and removal procedure .
 utilization of biodegradable implant load with radioisotope may spare the need for surgical procedure for the removal of the brachytherapy hardware .
 such a device would not only provide a much efficient therapy by virtue of proximity to the site of surgery but also contribute to improvement in the quality of life of the patient .
 in a previous study we show the in vivo feasibility and safety of a brachytherapy platform of 131i-nocholesterol use rapid and slow degradable crosslinked chitosan hydrogel implant in a rat model .
 due to the low penetrating property of particle produce by 131i this product afford local moderate radiotherapy in the site of implantation with minimal damage in distant tissue .
 being highly hydrophobic 131i-nocholesterol commonly use for adrenal scintigraphy be a good radioactive component to be use in a biodegradable device because release rate be solely dependent on the rate of platform degradation .
 the biocompatibility of the crosslinked chitosan implant be assess in the rat and be find to be safe than an absorbable surgical suture .
 a conspicuous use of such biodegradable implant would be in breast cancer patient undergo breast-conserving surgery to replace external beam radiation apply over 5 6 week to the remain breast tissue to prevent local recurrence .
 the overall objective of the present study be to challenge the hypothesis that locoregional tumor recurrence either be reduce or prevent by implantation of a biodegradable implant of 131i-norcholesterol 131i nc adjacent to the site of tumor resection .
 much specifically the study goal be to a prepare chitosan ct implant and to load it with 131i nc b study the effect of the 131i nc load ct hydrogel 131i nc ct as a primary therapy on tumor progression after implantation adjacent to the tumor c study the ability of 131i nc ct to prevent tumor recurrence in an adjuvant therapy minimal residual disease model d characterize the degradation kinetic of 131i nc ct in vivo and e trace possible adverse effect toxicity cause by the 131i nc ct implant at the implantation site and distant organ .
 material and .
 material .
 unless state otherwise all material be purchase from sigma louis mo .
 solvents be of analytical grade and water be ultrafiltered by reverse osmosis .
 preparation of ct gel .
 ct mg be dissolve in 25 ml of 1 m acetic acid frutarom israel .
 the ct solution be heat to c and 3 ml of glutaraldehyde ga solution w v in water be then add to crosslink the ct .
 the gel which be form immediately be then rinse for 24 h in at least three fresh portion of pbs 1 mm ph until no ga residue be detect .
 detection be perform spectrophotometrically at nm for monomeric ga and 235 nm for ga dimer .
 water content of the gel average .
 preparation of the 131i nc ct hydrogel .
 ct mg be dissolve in 25 ml of 1 m acetic acid frutarom israel .
 one ml of 131i nc suspension 1 mci cis bio international france be then disperse in the ct solution .
 crosslinking be then carry out and ga trace be remove as describe above .
 this procedure lead to about of the initial amount of 131i nc to adsorb onto the gel surface .
 the rest be remove by rinsing which be perform until no irradiation be detect in the rinse water .
 the 131i nc ct gel be cut into small cube g each contain 14 ci as determine by a dose calibrator capintec crc capintec instruments ramsey nj usa and implant immediately in the mouse .
 the dose be design accord to a previous report on the use of 131i as sodium salt intravenous injection for the treatment of breast cancer .
 cell for the xenograft mouse model .
 4t1 cell line from metastatic mammary mouse tumor atcc crl-2539 be cultured at 37 c in a humidify atmosphere of co2 air in dulbecco 's modified eagle 's medium supplement with heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum biological industry israel penicillin g mg l biological industry israel and streptomycin mg l biological industry israel .
 cell be harvest with trypsin-edta wash with pbs and concentrate to and cell ml in pbs for tumor progression and micro-residual disease study respectively .
 animal regulation anesthesia and euthanasia .
 the study be conduct in accord with the principles of laboratory animal care nih publication 1985 revision .
 the mutual committee for animal welfare of the hebrew university of jerusalem faculty of medicine and hadassah university medical center review and approve the study protocol .
 female 7 9 week balb c mouse be obtain from harlan laboratory israel .
 during the study mouse be keep under constant environmental condition 22 c 12 h light dark cycle and feed with standard laboratory chow and tap water .
 anesthesia be perform by an intraperitoneal injection of mg kg body weight of ketamine ketaset g ml fort dodge usa .
 euthanasia of the mouse be carry out by cervical dislocation .
 the effect of 131i nc ct on tumor progression primary therapy model a suspension of the 4t1 cell ml mouse be subcutaneously sc inject in the back of sixty mouse scheme 1 .
 the tumor become visually apparent one week after cell injection .
 two week after cell injection the mouse be divide into three group of group 1 a sham operation be perform and no hydrogel be implant no treatment group group 2 g of unload hydrogel be implant in each mouse to study the possible effect of the vehicle naive hydrogel group 3 g of 131i nc ct be implant in each mouse .
 the implantation procedure be perform through a 1 cm incision in the back of the anesthetized mouse place the hydrogel on the encapsulate tumor and close the skin with stainless steel staple .
 at 2 3 and 4 week after implantation three mouse from each group be sacrifice .
 the tumor be remove and weigh .
 in addition multiple biopsy specimen from the tumor bed lung heart liver spleen and kidney be fix in formalin embed in paraffin and subject to histopathological analysis .
 the remain 11 mouse be follow until cancer-related death occur for survival analysis conduct by the kaplan meier product limit method .
 full-size image 22k scheme schematic presentation of the experimental set-up of the primary therapy and the surgical adjuvant therapy protocol employ t41 cell and 131i nc ct implant sc subcutaneous .
 view within article .
 the effect of 131i nc ct on prevent tumor recurrence adjuvant therapy model the aim of this section of the study be to construct a model of minimal residual disease lead to tumor recurrence follow surgical therapy and to examine the impact of 131i nc ct scheme 1 placement on tumor recurrence rate .
 sixty mouse be divide into three study group of as describe above .
 the implantation procedure be perform through a 1 cm incision in the back of the anesthetized mouse mount the hydrogel in the surgical cavity inject a suspension of the 4t1 cell ml cell mouse and close the skin with stainless steel staple .
 at 11 week mouse from each group be sacrifice .
 multiple biopsy specimen from the tumor bed lung heart liver spleen and kidney be fix in formalin embed in paraffin and subject to histopathological analysis .
 the remain mouse be follow until cancer-related death occur for survival analysis conduct by the kaplan meier product limit method .
 histological analysis .
 specimen from the tumor bed lung heart liver spleen and kidney previously collect be rinse with pbs fixate with formaldehyde in pbs dehydrated with ethanol embed in paraffin block section 4 m and stain with hematoxylin eosin .
 imaging and estimation of biological elimination of the hydrogel .
 to verify localization of the 131i nc ct hydrogel cube g of the radioactive hydrogel be implant subcutaneously in the back of four mouse .
 scintigraphy be perform at 4 14 and day after implantation .
 each mouse be image for min under anesthesia use a helix dual-head camera elscint haifa israel and a high-energy high-resolution collimator .
 data be analyzed on a xeleris program ge healthcare region of interest be draw on each focus and the total number of count in each region be obtain .
 data obtain from the imaging study be use to calculate the elimination of the hydrogel from the site of implantation .
 oxidative degradation of the gel in vitro .
 to verify previous histological observation gel color change with time associate with the degradation process suggest an oxidation process involve in the implant elimination hydrogel cube s 4 mm be incubate in elevate concentration 1 5 and mm of potassium permanganate in water for 3 min .
 the gel be retrieve wash twice with water and incubate separately in 1 ml of aqueous hematoxylin mg ml or eosin mg ml solution for 4 h at room temperature .
 the concentration of the remain dye in the incubation medium be measure at nm hematoxylin and nm eosin and the fraction percent of initial amount of dye adsorbed onto the gel be calculate .
 .
 the effect of 131i nc ct on tumor progression primary therapy model tumor growth rate vary among the different study group .
 growth rate in the untreated group and the naive-implant group be g day and no far tumor progression be observe after 21 day .
 the tumor progression rate in the treatment group implant with 131i nc ct be 5 fold slow g day during the first 14 day after which time the rate equalize g day day 15 through 28 with the rate observe in the non-treated and naive-implant group and no far tumor progression be observe after 28 day .
 photograph of the solid tumor and microphotographs of the metastatic spread take 14 day after the hydrogel implantation be show in while no metastatic spread be detect in lung of 131i nc ct treat group at 2 week metastases be detect in lung of the control group .
 no metastatic spread be detect at 14 day in the heart liver spleen and kidney of all group .
 full-size image 21k tumor progression as express by tumor weight in non-treated mouse open square naive hydrogel open circle and treatment group implantation of 131i nc ct group fill circle .
 shown be the mean value of 3 different experiment sem .
 view within article .
 full-size image 48k representative image of whole solid tumor take from the sacrifice mouse back leave and photomicrographs take from the lung of the same mouse right 14 day after the injection of the 4t1 cell in the neoadjuvant therapy model study magnification .
 top panel naive control implant .
 lower panel 131i nc ct implant .
 note metastatic cell in the lung of the naive control mouse m .
 view within article .
 survival analysis reveal that mortality initiate 17 day after hydrogel implantation and end at day 35 in both naive hydrogel and non-treated group .
 in the treatment group implant with 131i nc ct mortality initiate at day 26 and be complete 42 day after hydrogel implantation .
 full-size image 22k survival analysis of the tumor progression of non-treated break line naive hydrogel solid line and 131i nc ct bold solid line implantation group in neoadjuvant therapy model .
 time scale relate to day after gel implantation .
 view within article .
 the preventive effect of 131i nc ct on tumor recurrence adjuvant therapy model tumor-related mortality of the non-treated and naive hydrogel group occur between 77 and 84 day after cell injection .
 however in the study group implant with 131i nc ct tumor-related mortality occur in only of the population last until 77 day after cell injection while percent of this group be tumor-free as confirm by a detail pathological analysis .
 survival be maintain until the end of the study day when all mouse be sacrifice and subject to histopathological analysis .
 full-size image 21k survival analysis of the tumor progression of non-treated break line naive hydrogel solid line and 131i nc ct bold solid line implantation group in the surgical adjuvant therapy model .
 time scale relate to day after gel implantation and 4t1 cell injection .
 view within article .
 5 depict tumor progression at 11 week after cell injection in the two control group compare with healthy subcutaneous tissue with no evidence of disease in the treatment group with minor calcification of part of the muscle fiber in the implantation bed .
 in addition metastatic spread be detect in the lung and liver of the control group while no metastatic spread be detect in this organ in the treatment group .
 no metastatic spread be detect in the heart kidney and spleen of all group .
 full-size image representative image of whole mouse and specimen take from tumor bed liver and lung of mouse sacrifice 77 day after the injection of the 4t1 cell in the surgical adjuvant therapy model study .
 top panel naive control implant .
 lower panel 131i nc ct implant .
 note tumor cell t and metastatic cell m in the lung and liver of the naive hydrogel treat mouse .
 magnifications tumor bed liver lung upper panel low panel .
 view within article .
 estimation of biological elimination kinetic of the hydrogel .
 the total elimination rate of 131i at the site of implantation be determine from the imaging study .
 the amount of radioactivity q at any time t after implantation can be calculate accord to the follow equation 1 .
 full-size image 37k a representative scintigraphy image show 131i activity decay and lack of body distribution of 131i nc .
 b the decay of 131i activity at the site of implantation express as the negative value of the natural logarithm of radioactive fraction remain with time .
 solid line total elimination include biological elimination broken line calculate decay of the radioisotope only .
 view within article .
 where be the initial amount of radioactivity and be the total elimination constant .
 transformation of the above equation to the negative value of the natural logarithm of the radioactivity fraction at any time yield the follow equation 2 ln q .
 be derived from the imaging study the change in remain fraction of radioactivity with time 6 solid line .
 total radioactivity elimination consist of the typical radioactive decay constant of 131i r and the biological elimination constant b .
 b be calculate from the follow equation 3 .
 the biological elimination half-life tb1 2 can then be calculate accord to 4 tb1 2 .
 the total elimination constant as derived from imaging study be find to be day 1 and the radioactive decay constant r of 131i be calculate from the t1 2 of the isotope and find to be day 1 plot in 6b break line .
 subtracting the radioactive decay constant r from the total decay constant give the value of the biological elimination constant b day 1 and the derived biological elimination half-life tb1 2 day .
 oxidative degradation of the hydrogel in vitro .
 7 show that incubate the gel cube in solution of increase concentration of permanganate result in a concentration dependent decrease in the eosin staining and a concomitant increase in the hematoxylin staining indicate a direct correlation with the extent of permanganate drive oxidation process .
 full-size image 23k adsorption of hematoxylin open circle and eosin close circle onto cube of the ct hydrogel after oxidation with increase concentration of kmno4 .
 shown be the mean of 5 measurement .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 the use of biodegradable platform of radioisotope for the delivery of local radiotherapy have be suggest in the past .
 carriers of a particulate nature inject intravenously for the targeting of hepatic malignancy direct magnetically or inject directly into the solid tumor be study .
 in the present study a different approach be suggest to implant a radioactive biodegradable hydrogel adjacent to a tumor or in a tumor bed as primary therapy or as adjuvant therapy follow surgical resection .
 by virtue of this design the derived therapy regimen be propose to replace conventional brachytherapy machinery for the prevention of locoregional recurrence .
 moreover in contrast to targeting approach attempt to concentrate radionuclei in malignant tissue approach suggest local post resection irradiation as a mean of prevent minimal residual disease a common postoperative complication .
 this concept be demonstrate in this study by employ a polysaccharide based hydrogel load with 131i nc and offer a proof of concept in a xenograft mouse model relevant to breast cancer .
 for this purpose chitosan ct be employ as the biodegradable platform .
 ct be a natural polysaccharide of 1 4 -linked 2-amino-2-deoxy-d-glucopyranose .
 because of biocompatibility and biodegradation property it be use in a variety of medical application such as orthopedic cement dermal substitution and scaffold and wound healing accelerator with or without embed fibroblast .
 to expand the time of ct biodegradation it be crosslinked with ga .
 the biocompatibility of this specific composite be test and be find to be superior to vicryl absorbable suture .
 the hydrogel be then load with 131i nc to obtain a biodegradable radioactive matrix 131i nc ct which after implantation adjacent to solid tumor be able to delay progression by two week as assess by monitor the tumor weight in the neoadjuvant therapy model .
 this finding be interesting since the 4t1 mouse model be know to be aggressively metastatic causing rapid and complete mortality even when treat with external beam radiation .
 the median survival time of the treatment group 42 day be fold long than the two control group 35 day while treatment with external beam radiation in this model extend the survival by fold compare to control group .
 the long-term survival rate of woman who undergo breast-conserving surgery follow by adjuvant radiotherapy be the same as that of woman who undergo modified-radical mastectomy .
 however the 5 year local recurrence rate be high follow breast conservation and can be reduce by external beam radiation therapy to as compare to follow mastectomy .
 in this context the study finding regard the effect of regional irradiation accomplish by implantation of the131i nc ct in the adjuvant therapy model be profound .
 this model mimic minimal residual disease at the tumor bed associate with locoregional and systemic recurrence .
 in this study it be find that the long-term survival and disease-free survival of the mouse treat with 131i nc ct be as compare to total mortality long-term survival of mouse in the untreated group or that treat with naive control .
 no tumor be detect macroscopically or microscopically in the tumor bed in the 131i nc ct group after 77 day compare with the two control group where large tumor develop at the site of cell injection .
 in addition a detail histopathological analysis of multiple specimen take from the tumor bed lung and liver of the 131i nc ct-treated group show no evidence of tumor at the surgical site or distant metastasis .
 in contrast tumor at the surgical site as well as lung and liver metastasis be present in the control group .
 the efficacy of local radiation therapy in the prevention of distant metastasis formation in a minimal residual disease model i of great importance and warrant far study in other tumor type .
 the presence of minimal disease follow surgical resection of malignant tumor be a major problem and result in local and systemic recurrence month and year follow surgery .
 the addition of efficient therapy that will eliminate minimal residual disease at the surgical site may prove to be of great importance in cancer therapy .
 in a previous study we demonstrate the localization and lack of systemic distribution of radioactivity after implantation of 131i nc ct despite the increase rate of hydrogel degradation due to incorporation of the radioactive isotope .
 the use of imaging in the present study enable calculation of the kinetic of the in vivo release of the radioisotope from the hydrogel .
 the release be detect by measure the amount of radioactivity and decrease with time in the implantation site .
 the latter be a result of two parallel process radioisotope decay and biological elimination of the isotope .
 elimination be a result of one or much of the follow process 1 release of 131i nc from the hydrogel due to degradation of the hydrogel 2 diffusional release of 131i nc from the hydrogel and 3 dissociation of 131i from the nor-cholesterol follow by diffusion out of the hydrogel .
 the last possibility be little likely to occur due to the chemical stability of 131i nc under physiological condition .
 plain diffusion of 131i nc be rule out due to the hydrophobicity of 131i nc entrap in the hydrogel as be already show in previous study with both 131i nc and sudan-black .
 thus the biological elimination of radioactivity from the site of implantation can only be a result of degradation of the hydrogel which lead to release of 131i nc in a first order kinetic characterize by a t1 2 of 14 day .
 the use of imaging to calculate elimination rate of compound entrap in biomaterial be much convenient and accurate than gravimetric method which require animal sacrifice and implant retrieval .
 moreover the imaging method unlike the gravimetric method can reflect structural change in the biomaterial that may cause a release but not a mass loss of the biomaterial .
 in a previous study we show that the hydrogel degradation be accompany by change in the nature of staining from eosinophilic to basophilic indicate a redox mechanism .
 to elucidate this point we oxidized the gel in vitro follow by he staining of the degradation product .
 the color change observe verify hypothesis .
 this find may indicate that in addition to the biodegradation of the gel decomposition also be attributed to oxidation process cause by reactive oxygen species generate by the local irradiation of the radioisotope entrap in the gel matrix .
 we conclude that the application of 131i nc ct biodegradable hydrogel implant in the treatment of a mammary mouse tumor model be show to delay tumor progression in the primary therapy model and much importantly to prevent tumor recurrence and metastatic spread in the minimal residual disease model .
 biodegradable implant compose of crosslinked ct load with radioisotope may be use as an alternative to brachytherapy procedure .
 acknowledgement .
 the result report here be include in the dissertation project of azab in partial fulfillment of phd degree requirement of the hebrew university of jerusalem .
 the study have be present in part in the gordon conference on drug carriers in medicine and biology montana usa .
 the study be support by a research grant 1358 from the israeli science foundation by a research grant from the united state israel binational science foundation by the robert szold fund and the julius oppenheimer endowment .
 rubinstein be affiliate with the david bloom center of pharmacy .
 because the much commonly use therapeutic endocrine agent in breast cancer target er the significance of the progesterone receptor pr primarily derive from the fact that pr be synthesize in response to er provide evidence for an intact estrogen-response pathway .
 with regard to the relative prognostic importance of er and pr expression in breast cancer numerous study have be perform to investigate the relationship between this receptor and breast cancer prognosis but the result be inconsistent for er and or pr as well as interpretation be complicate by the use of adjuvant endocrine therapy and chemotherapy .
 however in one of the study that do not include patient that receive systemic adjuvant therapy and assess the relationship between er and pr expression and prognosis a small but significant difference between disease free-survival dfs and survival s be find at 5 year with er-positive tumor compare with er-negative tumor .
 in this study similar result be find for pr-positive tumor have a survival advantage of compare to pr-negative tumor at 5 year .
 furthermore this study note that there be a non-significant trend for a well clinical outcome for high for dfs for s versus low for dfs for s tumor pr level that be not note for high for dfs for s versus low for dfs for s tumor er level .
 thus give that it be unknown whether er and pr expression be important marker of breast cancer prognosis and the fact that sensitive and specific quantitative assay for measurement be widely use in clinical practice it be important to investigate this relationship use an outcome assessment for prognosis that be a strong correlative of survival such as breast cancer stage at diagnosis to remove the confound introduce through the use of adjuvant endocrine treatment or chemotherapy .
 furthermore the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis be the much widely use method for predict the prognosis of patient with breast cancer with regional lymph node metastasis and tumor size be the two strong correlate of survival in patient without obvious distant metastasis .
 the correlation of er and pr expression with breast tumor size and the status of regional lymph node metastasis have be examine independently of each other .
 two of this study show that both er and pr expression individually be inversely associate with tumor size with the association for er expression not be significant in the small of this study .
 however it be important to mention that in one of the other study in which neither er nor pr expression be find to be associate with tumor size of the patient have distant metastatic disease .
 moreover of the study that assess the association of er expression or the combination of er and pr expression with regional nodal status for metastasis none of this study find er expression to correlate with regional lymph node metastasis but do find er and pr expression in combination or pr expression alone to negatively correlate with regional lymph node metastasis in 1 of the 3 study that assess this relationship .
 thus although the datum be limited the result of this study provide some support for an inverse association of er or pr expression with breast tumor size and pr expression with regional lymph node metastasis .
 as a result it be possible that there be a significant inverse association between pr expression and possibly er expression and the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis since it include tumor size and the status of regional lymph node metastasis as well as the presence or absence of distant metastasis .
 according to a thorough literature review several study investigate the relationship between er and pr expression and the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis with this study indicate that er and pr expression individually be not associate with the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis .
 however only three of this study assess the association of er and pr expression individually with the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis .
 in one of this study the four stage grouping for invasive breast cancer as define by the american joint committee on cancer ajcc be collapse into two group i ii versus iii iv which reduce the accuracy of stage in represent the anatomic extent of breast cancer .
 in addition er and pr expression be report as either positive or negative rather than as grade level of expression which for statistical reason have reduce the chance for find a significant inverse association between pr expression and perhaps er expression with the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis .
 adequate testing of this relationship by this study be far jeopardize because they do not account for the histology and histological grade or extent of differentiation of the tumor to assess lethality as well as the patient characteristic that influence the time to diagnosis since breast cancer stage be relate to the tumor growth rate metastatic potential and duration of existence .
 thus since pr expression may have a stronger inverse association with the stage of breast cancer than er expression we conduct a cross-sectional study that include woman with invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast to determine the relationship between er and pr expression and the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis a strong correlate of survival not affect by intervene endocrine therapy or chemotherapy .
 the study 's design also account for patient and breast tumor characteristic that have be previously note to influence the stage at which breast cancer be diagnose .
 material and .
 study design .
 the cross-sectional study involve woman with invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast .
 the purpose of the study be to determine the association of breast tumor er and pr expression with the study outcome stage of the breast cancer at diagnosis .
 the study be conduct under a ut southwestern medical center ut southwestern institutional review board approve protocol and inform consent be obtain from the study subject prior to the collection of clinical datum and breast tumor specimen .
 we select only ductal carcinoma case which represent the majority of breast cancer to eliminate the variable effect that the different breast tumor histology may have on the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis .
 the study covariate select be age race and ethnicity menopausal status body mass index bmi breast tumor grade and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 her-2 neu expression based on a thorough literature review indicate association with the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis or breast cancer prognosis .
 subjects .
 the tissue from 142 invasive ductal breast carcinoma use in this study represent a consecutive series of female patient from the referral population at ut southwestern .
 this tissue specimen be collect by surgical resection and by open or core biopsy at diagnosis from october to november and store in the ut southwestern tissue repository as formalin-fixed paraffin embed tissue section .
 the ut southwestern tissue repository also provide clinical and tumoral datum relate to this tissue specimen that be collect at the time of procurement .
 histology and stage .
 we use the nottingham scheme to determine breast tumor histological grade i iii and the ajcc stage system to classify the stage of the breast cancer case i iv .
 the number of case for stage i ii iii and iv be 43 63 31 and 5 respectively .
 due to the small number of stage iv case we only include stage i iii n 137 in the analysis relate to the outcome breast cancer stage at diagnosis .
 immunohistochemistry assay and quantitation method .
 we use quantitative immunohistochemistry to determine breast tumor er pr and her-2 neu expression .
 immunohistochemistry staining be perform at room temperature and carry out use the dako autostainer dakocytomation carpinteria as describe previously .
 reagent be use as supply in the mach 4 universal hrp-polymer kit biocare medical walnut creek .
 biocare diva ph be use .
 as previously describe optimum primary antibody dilution be predetermine use know positive control tissue and a know positive control section be include in each run to assure proper staining .
 quantitative information for staining be obtain use the automate microscopy method automated cellular imaging system acis chromavision medical system san juan capistrano .
 acis be federal drug administration fda approve for the detection of er and pr .
 the acis system consist of an automate robotic bright-field microscope module a computer and a windows nt-based software interface .
 the robotic microscope module scan the immunohistochemically stain slide and the computer monitor display the digitalized tissue image .
 after view the high-magnification image on the acis computer one or much subregions of the digitalized tissue image be select for analysis by acis .
 to assess the level of tissue er and pr expression acis provide the percentage of positively stain cell for er and pr in the select subregions .
 we use the manufacture 's guideline for acis to determine tissue er pr and her2 neu expression .
 the tissue be consider to be positive for er and pr expression if the percentage of cell staining positive for er and pr in select subregions of the tissue be .
 to assess her2 neu overexpression acis provide an average score for 5 select subregions of the tissue with the high staining intensity for her-2 neu and tissue with an average score of be consider to have her-2 neu overexpression .
 full-size image 56k acis a er-positive breast b pr-positive breast a b .
 view within article .
 statistical analysis .
 microsoft access be use to create the study database .
 chi-square and fisher exact test and the kruskal wallis statistic be use to determine the association of the covariate age race and ethnicity menopausal status bmi and breast tumor grade and her-2 neu expression with the study 's outcome stage of breast cancer at diagnosis .
 logistic regression analysis be use to determine the association of the study 's predictor variable breast tumor er and pr expression adjust for covariate .
 in the logistic regression analysis a backward elimination procedure be use and only those covariate with p be keep in the final model .
 statistical analysis software version be use for all of the analysis .
 result .
 clinical and tumoral datum from patient and the association of this datum with the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis be present in table much patient be over year old 5713 white postmenopausal and overweight 29 7 kg m2 .
 nearly half of the breast tumor be positive for er and pr expression and be positive for her-2 neu overexpression .
 the result of the univariate analysis as present in table 1 indicate the following .
 breast tumor histological grade p and her-2 neu expression p be both significantly and positively associate with the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis .
 in addition although er and pr expression together be inversely and significantly associate with the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis p when er and pr expression be consider separately pr expression p and not er expression p be inversely and significantly associate with the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis .
 however although er and pr expression be both inversely associate with the tumor grade at the same level of statistical significance p as illustrate in 2 only breast tumor pr expression be significantly and inversely associate with the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis .
 3 demonstrate that pr expression decline much rapidly with an advance stage of breast cancer at diagnosis than do er expression .
 table .
 selected patient and breast tumor characteristic associate with the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis .
 characteristicspatients n 137 p mean sd age year 57 13 bmi kg m2 29 7 er 51 45 pr 39 .
 number race and white88 66 african american26 19 hispanic14 asian6 4 yes74 no32 i19 14 ii75 57 iii38 29 er 45 22 16 39 her-2 24 94 76 full-size table .
 a inverse association with stage of breast cancer at diagnosis .
 b positive association with stage of breast cancer at diagnosis .
 view within article .
 full-size image 13k er breast tumor expression and pr breast tumor expression be both significantly and inversely associate with breast tumor grade at diagnosis with p .
 view within article .
 full-size image 12k pr breast tumor expression p and not er breast tumor expression p be significantly and inversely associate with the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis .
 view within article .
 as show in table 2 the multivariate logistic regression analysis also indicate that pr expression be significantly and inversely associate with the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis with odd ratio or confidence interval ci p and without or ci p her-2 neu expression as a covariate whereas the association of er expression with the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis be not only insignificant but weak and unclear on direction with or ci p and without or ci p her-2 neu expression as a covariate .
 of note be that her-2 neu expression do not appear in the final logistic regression model since it be not statistically significant or ci p n 118 .
 the or be calculate per unit increment .
 table .
 association of er and pr expression with stage of breast cancer at diagnosis n 137 receptorstage ora ci porb ci p .
 full-size table .
 a adjusted for race and ethnicity and breast tumor grade .
 b adjusted for race and ethnicity breast tumor grade and her2 neu expression .
 her2 neu be not statistically significant or ci p n 118 .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 the univariate result of the study indicate that although both er and pr expression be significantly and inversely associate with breast tumor grade only breast tumor pr expression be significantly and inversely associate with the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis .
 this finding be consistent with the result of past study in that with lengthen follow-up the favorable prognosis associate with breast tumor er expression be lose disappear after 5 8 year .
 in fact in a study that focused on this issue er-positive expression be find to loose protectiveness for breast cancer relapse at about 3 year at which point the prognosis begin to decline .
 furthermore the multivariate result of study indicate that pr expression and not er expression regardless of her-2 neu expression status be significantly and inversely associate with the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis a strong correlative of survival not affect by intervene endocrine therapy or chemotherapy .
 thus this finding indicate that although both er and pr expression have a favorable effect on breast tumor differentiation as measure by tumor grade that only pr expression be a marker for breast cancer prognosis as measure by the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis .
 as a result pr expression may be useful as a therapeutic tool to well inform the decision for or against adjuvant chemotherapy in select patient .
 much specifically national consensus guideline currently recommend the consideration of adjuvant chemotherapy for breast tumor that be 1 cm in diameter er-positive and be not associate with regional lymph node metastasis .
 however emerge evidence suggest that regardless of regional lymph node status for metastasis the benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy in term of dfs or s for er-positive breast tumor be small compare to er-negative breast tumor which tend to be pr-negative since pr be synthesize in response to er .
 therefore adjuvant chemotherapy may be beneficial for patient with breast tumor 1 cm in diameter that be er-positive and pr-negative which occur at least of the time .
 furthermore pr may be a potential therapeutic target since study indicate that pr be a positive prognostic marker for breast cancer and recent in vitro study indicate that pr expression may serve a protective role in breast cancer progression via ligand-dependent and ligand-independent mechanism .
 several recent study have show the potential benefit of pr in the presence of progesterone for reduce breast cancer progression .
 this study be conduct use an er-independent in vitro model system in which pr cdna be stably transfected into the er-negative and pr-negative breast cancer cell line mda-mb-231 .
 in one of this study pr in the presence of progesterone markedly inhibit the growth of mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell and induce spread and adherence property .
 the finding in this study indicate that pr in the presence of progesterone may play a significant role by block tumor invasion and metastasis .
 in another study it be find that progesterone substantially inhibit breast tumor growth in scid mouse inoculate with mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell stably transfected with pr cdna .
 in the final study progesterone be find to induce cellular differentiation of mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell transfected with pr cdna .
 in the much recent study it be demonstrate that progesterone treatment of mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell transfected with pr cdna result in a whole genome expression profile that have strong antiproliferative and antineoplastic feature .
 thus the finding in this study overall suggest that progesterone act through pr may play a role in decrease breast tumor proliferation and invasiveness by regulate the expression of proliferative- and invasion-related gene .
 furthermore because this study indicate that pr may be a therapeutic target in breast cancer this lend support to conduct future in vitro study to determine the threshold level of pr expression that be necessary to induce favorable tumor effect .
 there be also some evidence to suggest that pr may serve a protective role in breast cancer progression via ligand-independent mechanism .
 in recent study it be observe that sirna-mediated knockdown of pr in t47d breast cancer cell cause activation of nf-b and a fold induction of cox-2 mrna .
 this be observe in the absence of exogenous progesterone suggest that pr exert a ligand-independent action to inhibit nf-b activation .
 cox-2 which be induce by proinflammatory cytokine growth factor and tumor promoter be link to carcinogenesis and have be find to be overexpressed in a significant portion of breast cancer particularly in those that express her-2 neu .
 in addition transcription factor nf-b which mediate the action of proinflammatory cytokine to induce cox-2 expression appear to play an important role in breast carcinogenesis .
 moreover selective ablation of pr in t47d cell in serum-free condition also lead to increase in the expression of the cytoskeletal protein ezrin which be highly correlated with tumor cell invasiveness and metastasis .
 it be far demonstrate that increase the expression of pr in the absence of ligand in breast cancer cell diminish cox-2 expression .
 it have also be note that glucocorticoid and mineralcorticoid receptor cross-talk with pr mediate focal adhesion of mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell transfected with pr cdna which would reduce the potential for tumor metastasis .
 thus this ligand-independent protective action of pr may be of great significance in the case of postmenopausal woman where circulate level of progesterone be absent or negligible .
 a possible limitation of this study be that we do not account for all of the confounder or important variable in the breast cancer case that may have influence breast cancer stage at diagnosis however we do account for the much important confounder based on a thorough literature review .
 we be also aware that although the result of this cross-sectional study indicate that pr expression be an important marker of early stage breast cancer one conclude from this result that pr decrease breast cancer progression .
 however finding that pr expression be significantly and inversely associate with the stage of breast cancer at diagnosis a strong predictor of breast cancer prognosis also suggest that if pr be activate or reactivate that it may be of therapeutic benefit in light of the potential protective role of pr in breast cancer as indicate in the mechanistic study mention above .
 in conclusion the study provide new information indicate that pr and not er expression be a marker for early stage breast cancer indicate that pr expression be an important prognostic marker for breast cancer that will likely enhance ability to effectively treat select patient .
 in addition based on current experimental research indicate that pr may play a role in reduce the progression of breast cancer pr be also a potential target for therapy in breast cancer .
 thus finding emphasize the importance of conduct future study to further test the importance of pr as a prognostic marker in breast cancer as well as to determine whether activation or reactivation decrease breast cancer progression .
 such knowledge may help to identify new strategy for breast cancer treatment .
 acknowledgement .
 we thank jennifer sayne for provide the datum to us from the ut southwestern tissue repository aihua bian for manage the study 's database and carry out the datum analysis for the study and john minna for review the manuscript .
 consequently the survival time be different in subgroup of patient .
 generally five-year recurrence-free survival be range from to in all population in breast cancer patient buchholz strom mcneese .
 the purpose of this study be to apply a novel analytical method to breast cancer patient to identify prognostic factor and explore the interaction between clinical variable and impact on survival .
 decision tree algorithm allow for non-linear relation between predictive factor and outcome and for mix datum type numerical and categorical isolate outliers and incorporate a prune process use cross-validation as an alternative to testing for unbiasedness with a second datum set .
 in the literature there be several report about a separation of patient in subgroup with different prognosis for survival aligayer et kenneth et 1999 sauerbrei et 1997 and ture et .
 decision tree use recursive partitioning to assess the effect of specific variable on survival thereby ultimately generate group of patient with similar clinical feature and survival time .
 the partitioning of patient into group with differ survival time use clinical variable generate a tree-structured model that can be analyzed to assess clinical utility .
 therefore decision tree method such as classification and regression tree crt chi-squared automatic interaction detector chaid quick unbiased efficient statistical tree quest commercial version and interactive dichotomizer version 3 id3 be much suitable than classical statistical method .
 we analyzed the simultaneous relationship among risk factor for breast cancer by five decision tree algorithm .
 this study compare the relative effect of each risk factor for breast cancer in the multivariate analysis model .
 we try to discover the significant pattern and relationship among the risk factor and make decision rule for the management of breast cancer .
 patient and .
 patient .
 a retrospective analysis be perform in breast cancer patient diagnose between 1997 .
 for the investigation of the prognostic factor age menopausal status age of menarche age of first delivery presence of abortus hormone replacement therapy family history of cancer histologic tumor type quadrant of tumor tumor size estrogen and progesterone receptor status histologic and nuclear grading accord to scarf-bloom richardson criterion bloom richardson 1957 type of surgery axillary nodal status pericapsular involvement of lymph node stage of disease accord to ajcc american joint committee on cancer 1997 lymphovascular and perineural invasion radiotherapy chemotherapy and hormonal therapy we have complete datum for 279 patient who form the basis of this study .
 primary local treatment be surgery modify radical mastectomy or breast conserve surgery .
 the median age be 48 range 28 84 in the whole patient population .
 tumor be consider positive for estrogen and progesterone receptor if much than of tumor cell show a nuclear staining zhang salto-tellez putti do koay .
 descriptive statistic of clinical and pathologic datum for the entire patient population be list in table we perform the classical statistical analysis to examine the difference in the distribution of variable between patient who have recurrence or not .
 the kolmogorov smirnov test be use to assess the normality of numeric variable .
 for all the numeric variable that be non-normally distribute comparison between two group be make by the mann whitney u-test and result be express as median and interquartile range .
 association of recurrence with nominal variable be assess use the 2 test .
 table .
 clinical and laboratory characteristic of the study group .
 independent variablesrecurrencep absent n 199 present n age years-old median irq 48 15 48 age of menarche years-old median irq 13 2 13 1 tumor size cm median irq 3 2 4 4 n n hormone replacement therapypresent45 age of first delivery years-old 6 menopausal statuspost79 38 39 peri11 3 presence of abortuspresent16 13 stage of diseasein situ cancer6 early stage cancer157 47 locally advance cancer36 33 nuclear gradei35 ii111 37 ii53 33 estrogen receptor statuspositive152 52 progesterone receptor statuspositive151 type of surgerymodified radical mastectomy138 67 breast conserve surgery61 13 radiotherapypresent161 69 chemotherapypresent172 73 hormonal therapypresent159 48 family history of cancerabsent139 52 other cancers44 19 breast cancer16 9 perineural invasionpresent63 35 lymphovascular invasionpresent114 58 axillary nodal statusnegative86 16 1 3 lymph node positive59 4 lymph node positive54 44 histologic gradei36 ii89 28 iii74 42 histologic tumor typeductal164 69 other35 11 quadrant of 62 multicentric19 18 pericapsular involvement of lymph nodespositive59 41 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 adjuvant radiotherapy be give to patient and chemotherapy be administer to 245 patient .
 chemotherapy be deliver prior to radiotherapy .
 hormonal therapy be initiate after the completion of radiotherapy and typically continue for 5 year in hormone receptor positive patient until recurrence of disease .
 follow-up consist of a clinical assessment in every three month for the first three year six-monthly for two year and annual follow-up after five year .
 statistical analysis .
 for this variable decision tree algorithm be use to identify optimal cut point in the datum .
 a fold cross-validation analysis be perform as an initial evaluation of the test error of the algorithm .
 briefly this process involve splitting up the dataset into random segment and use 9 of them for training and the as a test set for the algorithm .
 survival analysis be perform for disease-free survival the time from initial diagnosis to the first recurrence of disease local regional or distant .
 for the terminal node of the good decision tree method survival curve be estimate by the kaplan meier method and the difference between the curve be evaluate by log-rank test mantel cox .
 follow-up time for each patient be calculate in month from the last day of the initial treatment to the date of death or the date of last visit .
 for all statistical test p-value little than be consider significant .
 decision tree .
 classification and regression tree .
 crt be a recursive partitioning method to be use both for regression and classification .
 crt be construct by splitting subset of the datum set use all predictor variable to create two child node repeatedly begin with the entire datum set .
 the good predictor be choose use a variety of impurity or diversity measure gini twoing order twoing and least-squared deviation .
 the goal be to produce subset of the datum which be as homogeneous as possible with respect to the target variable breiman friedman olshen stone 1984 .
 in this study we use measure of gini impurity that use for categorical target variable .
 gini impurity measure the gini index at node t g t be define as .
 where i and j be category of the target variable .
 the equation for the gini index can also be write as .
 thus when the case in a node be evenly distribute across the category the gini index take maximum value of 1 1 k where k be the number of category for the target variable .
 when all case in the node belong to the same category the gini index equal .
 if cost of misclassification be specify the gini index be compute as .
 where c ij be the probability of misclassifying a category j case as category i .
 the gini criterion function for split s at node t be define as .
 t -plg tl -prg tr where pl be the proportion of case in t send to the leave child node and pr be the proportion send to the right child node .
 the split s be choose to maximize the value of .
 this value be report as the improvement in the tree .
 chi-squared automatic interaction detection .
 chaid method be based on the 2 test of association .
 a chaid tree be a decision tree that be construct by repeatedly split subset of the space into two or much child node begin with the entire datum set michael gordon 1997 .
 to determine the good split at any node any allowable pair of category of the predictor variable be merge until there be no statistically significant difference within the pair with respect to the target variable .
 this chaid method naturally deal with interaction between the independent variable that be directly available from an examination of the tree .
 the final node identify subgroup define by different set of independent variable magidson spss 1993 .
 the chaid algorithm only accept nominal or ordinal categorical predictor .
 when predictor be continuous they be transform into ordinal predictor before use the follow algorithm .
 for each predictor variable x merge non-significant category .
 each final category of x will result in one child node if x be use to split the node .
 the merge step also calculate the adjust p-value that be to be use in the splitting .
 if x have 1 category only stop and set the adjust p-value to be .
 if x have 2 category go to step .
 else find the allowable pair of category of x an allowable pair of category for ordinal predictor be two adjacent category and for nominal predictor be any two category that be least significantly different .
 the much similar pair be the pair test statistic give the large p-value with respect to the dependent variable how to calculate p-value under various situation will be describe in late section .
 for the pair have the large p-value check if p-value be large than a user-specified alpha-level merge .
 if it do this pair be merge into a single compound category .
 then a new set of category of x be form .
 if it do not then go to step .
 optional if the newly form compound category consist of three or much original category then find the good binary split within the compound category which p-value be the small .
 perform this binary split if p-value be not large than an alpha-level split merge .
 go to step .
 optional any category have too few observation as compare with a user-specified minimum segment size be merge with the much similar other category as measure by the large of the p-value .
 the adjust p-value be compute for the merge category by apply bonferroni adjustment that be to be discuss biggs and suen 1991 goodman 1979 kass and magidson and spss 1993 .
 quick unbiased efficient statistical tree .
 quest be a binary-split decision tree algorithm for classification and datum mining .
 quest can be use with univariate or linear combination split .
 a unique feature be that attribute selection method have negligible bias .
 if all the attribute be uninformative with respect to the class attribute then each have approximately the same change of be select to split a node loh shih 1997 .
 the quest tree grow process consist of the selection of a split predictor selection of a split point for the select predictor and stop .
 in this algorithm only univariate split be consider .
 for selection of split predictor it use the follow .
 for each continuous predictor x perform an anova f-test that test if all the different class of the dependent variable y have the same mean of x and calculate the p-value accord to the f statistic .
 for each categorical predictor perform a pearson 's 2 test of y and x 's independence and calculate the p-value accord to the 2 statistic .
 find the predictor with the small p-value and denote it .
 if this small p-value be little than where be a user-specified level of significance and m be the total number of predictor variable predictor x be select as the split predictor for the node .
 if not go to .
 for each continuous predictor x compute a levene 's f statistic based on the absolute deviation of x from class mean to test if the variance of x for different class of y be the same and calculate the p-value for the test .
 find the predictor with the small p-value and denote it as .
 if this small p-value be little than m m1 where m1 be the number of continuous predictor x be select as the split predictor for the node .
 otherwise this node be not split loh shih 1997 .
 commercial version .
 be a supervise learn classification algorithm use to construct decision tree from the datum .
 much empirical learning system be give a set of pre-classified case each describe by a vector of attribute value and construct from them a mapping from attribute value to class .
 be one such system that learn decision tree classifier .
 it use a divide-and-conquer approach to grow decision tree benjamin tom samuel weijun xuegang .
 the main difference between and other similar decision tree building algorithm be in the test selection and evaluation process .
 let attribute be denote a a1 a2 case be denote d d1 d2 and class be denote c c1 c2 .
 for a set of case d a test ti be a split of d based on attribute at .
 it split d into mutually exclusive subset d1 d2 dp .
 this subset of case be single-class collection of case .
 if a test t be choose the decision tree for d consist of a node identify the test t and one branch for each possible subset di .
 for each subset di a new test be then choose for far split .
 if di satisfy a stop criterion the tree for di be a leaf associate with the much frequent class in di .
 one reason for stop be that case in di belong to one class .
 decision tree algorithm use a modify splitting criterion call gain ratio .
 it use arg max gain d t or arg max gain ratio d t to choose test for split .
 where p ci d denote the proportion of case in d that belong to the ith class .
 select the test that maximize gain ratio value .
 once the initial decision tree be construct a prune procedure be initiate to decrease the overall tree size and decrease the estimate error rate of the tree .
 interactive dichotomizer version 3 the id3 be a simple decision tree learn algorithm develop by quinlan 1993 .
 the id3 algorithm build decision tree use a top-down greedy search procedure and represent the core of quinlan 's highly successful decision tree algorithm .
 the basic idea of id3 algorithm be to construct the decision tree by employ a top-down greedy search through the give set to test each attribute at every tree node .
 in order to select the attribute that be much useful for classify a give set we introduce a metric information gain .
 an id3 algorithm work as follow cheng and maghsoodloo 1995 and shao et .
 suppose t pe ne where pe be the set of positive example and ne be the set of negative example p pe and n ne .
 an example will be determine to belong to pe with probability p n and ne with probability p n .
 by employ the information theoretic heuristic a decision tree be consider as a source of message pe or ne with the expect information need to generate this message give by .
 if attribute x with value domain v1 be use for the root of the decision tree it will partition t into t1 where ti contain those example in t that have value vi of let ti contain pi example of pe and ni of the expect information require for the sub-tree for ti be i pi ni .
 the expect information require for the tree with x as the root ei x be then obtain as a weigh average .
 where the weight for the ith branch be the proportion of the example in t that belong to ti .
 the information gain by branch on x g x be therefore .
 g x -ei x id3 examine all candidate attribute choose x to maximize g x construct the tree and then use the same process recursively to construct decision tree for residual subset t1 tn .
 for each ti i 1 2 n if all the example in ti be positive it create a yes node and halt if all the example in ti be negative it create a no node and halt otherwise it select another attribute in the same way as give early .
 multidimensional scaling mds mds be a method that represent measurement of similarity or dissimilarity among pair of object as distance between point of a low-dimensional space .
 it help us to represent di similarity between object as distance in a euclidean space .
 in effect the much dissimilar two object be the large the distance between the object in the euclidean space should be .
 the object in study be the different classification technique describe by characteristic in term of classification performance measurement .
 the location of the technique on the map be based on position in the m-dimensional variable space .
 similar to the r2 measure in regression analysis there be a pseudo-r2 calculate in mds .
 the pseudo-r2 be equal to the percentage of the sum of squared dissimilarity explain by the model .
 another goodness-of-fit measure of the projection be the so-called stress factor .
 a stress factor be consider to be good borg and groenen 1997 and kruskal 1964 .
 kaplan meier survival analysis .
 the kaplan meier analysis be a non-parametric technique for estimate time-related event kaplan meier 1958 .
 it can be use to test the statistical significance of difference between the survival curve associate with two different circumstance .
 it be apply by analyzing the distribution of patient survival time follow recruitment to a study .
 the analysis express this in term of the proportion of patient still alive up to a give time follow recruitment .
 in graphical term a plot of the proportion of patient survive against time have a characteristic decline often exponential the steepness of the curve indicate the efficacy of the treatment be investigate .
 the much shallow the survival curve the much effective the treatment .
 a variety of test may be use to compare two or much kaplan meier curve under certain well-defined circumstance .
 median remission time the time when of the cohort have reach remission as well as quantity such as three- five- and ten-year probability of remission can also be generate from the kaplan meier analysis provide there have be sufficient follow-up of customer .
 .
 characteristic of study subject .
 after a median follow-up of month 25 75 percentile month patient have have at least one of the event for recurrence-free survival loco-regional recurrence distant metastases or second cancer .
 tumor size axillary nodal status stage of disease lymphovascular invasion quadrant of tumor progesterone receptor status pericapsular involvement of lymph node type of surgery and hormonal therapy be find statistically significant prognostic factor for recurrence .
 comparison of decision tree method .
 we use error rate for training set and cross-validation to monitor prediction performance of the method .
 table 2 give the performance measure of crt chaid quest and id3 algorithm .
 the error rate value for training set range from to and the error rate value for cross-validation range from to .
 as it can be see from table 2 the application of the crt take on the small error rate value for training set .
 and id3 rank second chaid rank third follow by quest .
 table .
 comparison of the error rate of model .
 modelerror rate training setcross-validation .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 a comparison of the predictive value sensitivity specificity positive predictive value ppv negative predictive value npv and predictive rate pr for training set of decision tree method be show in table all model have sensitivity specificity ppv npv and pr for training set in the and range respectively .
 table .
 comparison of the performance of model for training set .
 modelsensitivity specificity ppv npv pr .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 predictive value for training set be use as input variable in mds .
 it be do to identify homogenous group of classification technique based on predictive value .
 we find that stress factor be in mds .
 the two-dimensions be plot against each other in as it can be see from 1 perform well than chaid quest crt and id3 in predict breast cancer .
 full-size image 9k be find the good method by multidimensional scaling .
 view within article .
 classification tree and rule of for the prediction of rfs in breast cancer .
 in the analysis we identify the variable that play important role in explain recurrence .
 this indicate that the tumor size be the much important determining factor for recurrence .
 this first-level split produce the two initial branch of the classification tree cm versus cm .
 table .
 terminal node .
 modelterminal nodesrecurrence crtnode 1 tumor size cm node 2 tumor size cm age 64 years-old node 3 tumor size cm age 64 years-old axillary nodal status negative 1 3 lymph node positive node 4 tumor size cm age 64 years-old axillary nodal status 4 lymph node positive hormonal therapy absent node 5 tumor size cm age 64 years-old axillary nodal status 4 lymph node positive hormonal therapy present chaidnode 1 axillary nodal status negative 1 3 lymph node positive quadrant of tumor multicentric node 2 axillary nodal status 4 lymph node positive radiotherapy absent node 3 axillary nodal status negative 1 3 lymph node positive quadrant of tumor unicentric hormonal therapy absent node 4 axillary nodal status negative 1 3 lymph node positive quadrant of tumor unicentric hormonal therapy present node 5 axillary nodal status 4 lymph node positive radiotherapy present progesterone receptor status negative node 6 axillary nodal status 4 lymph node positive radiotherapy present progesterone receptor status positive questnode 1 tumor size 6 cm node 2 tumor size 6 cm presence of abortus present node 3 tumor size 6 cm presence of abortus present nodal status 4 lymph node positive node 4 tumor size 6 cm presence of abortus present axillary nodal status negative 1 3 lymph node positive age of menarche 13 years-old node 5 tumor size 6 cm presence of abortus present axillary nodal status negative 1 3 lymph node positive age of menarche 13 years-old tumor type ductal node 6 tumor size 6 cm presence of abortus present axillary nodal status negative 1 3 lymph node positive age of menarche 13 years-old hystologic tumor type other 6 tumor size cm age of menarche 15 years-old hormonal therapy absent axillary nodal status 4 lymph node positive node 7 tumor size cm age of menarche 15 years-old hormonal therapy absent axillary nodal status negative node 8 tumor size cm age of menarche 15 years-old hormonal therapy absent axillary nodal status 1 3 lymph node positive node 3 tumor size cm age of menarche 15 years-old hormonal therapy present node 1 tumor size cm age of menarche 15 years-old node 2 tumor size cm hormonal therapy absent node 4 tumor size cm hormonal therapy present hystologic grade i ii node 5 tumor size cm hormonal therapy present hystologic grade iii id3node 1 tumor size cm node 4 tumor size cm axillary nodal status 4 lymph node positive hormonal therapy absent node 5 tumor size cm axillary nodal status 4 lymph node positive hormonal therapy present pericapsular involvement of lymph node positive node 6 tumor size cm axillary nodal status 4 lymph node positive hormonal therapy present pericapsular involvement of lymph node negative node 2 tumor size cm axillary nodal status negative node 3 tumor size cm axillary nodal status 1 3 lymph node positive .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 we see difference in two subtrees .
 for the tumor size cm age of menarche prove the good predict variable .
 for the age of menarche branch which include 15 years-old hormonal therapy be the much prominent .
 for the tumor size cm age of menarche 15years-old and absent of hormonal therapy axillary nodal status 4 lymph none positive be the much prominent .
 for the tumor size cm present of hormonal therapy histological grade be the much prominent .
 classification tree be chart that illustrate decision rule .
 the decision rule provide specific information about risk factor based on the rule induction .
 they begin with one root node that contain all of the observation in the sample .
 the have 13 leaf node of which 8 be terminal node .
 survival analysis for breast cancer patient .
 the tree of have an initial split on breast cancer and eight terminal node be form .
 the variable determine the structure of the tree include tumor size age of menarche hormonal therapy histological grade and axillary nodal status .
 the long survive terminal node node 1 include only three event in 41 patient with tumor size cm and age of menarche 15 years-old .
 such patient have a 52 month median survival .
 a second terminal node node 7 with a relatively long median survival of 49 month include only two event in 15 patient with tumor size cm age of menarche 15 years-old hormonal therapy be not give and axillary nodal status be negative .
 a third terminal node node 8 with median survival of 45 month include nine event in 15 patient with tumor size cm and age of menarche 15years-old hormonal therapy be not give and axillary nodal status be 1 3 lymph node positive .
 one of the short survive terminal node node 2 include 15 event in 19 patient with tumor size cm and hormonal therapy be not give .
 this patient have a median survival of only month .
 table .
 descriptive statistic and five-year recurrence-free survival rfs for each node .
 nodeterminal nodemedianmeanstandard deviationnumber of recurrencenfive-year rfs 1tumor size cm age of menarche 15 years-old 2tumor size cm hormonal therapy absent 3tumor size cm age of menarche 15 years-old hormonal therapy present 4tumor size cm hormonal therapy present hystologic grade i ii 5tumor size cm hormonal therapy present hystologic grade iii 6tumor size cm age of menarche 15 years-old hormonal therapy absent axillary nodal status 4 lymph node positive 7tumor size cm age of menarche 15 years-old hormonal therapy absent axillary nodal status negative 8tumor size cm age of menarche 15 years-old hormonal therapy absent axillary nodal status 1 3 lymph node positive .
 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 the five-year kaplan meier estimate for recurrence-free survival be in the whole patient 2 show the estimate recurrence-free survival rate accord to the decision tree method based on the analysis .
 we test the statistical significance of the difference between the survival curve of two terminal node use the log-rank test .
 the survival curve of node 1 be statistically different from node 2 4 5 6 and node 2 be statistically different from all node except node the survival curve of node 3 be statistically different from node 2 5 and the survival curve of node 4 be statistically different from node 2 and the survival curve of node 5 be statistically different from node 7 and finally node 7 be statistically different from node .
 full-size image 22k kaplan meier survival curve of the eight terminal node generate from .
 view within article .
 table .
 pairwise comparison by log-rank mantel cox node 2node 3node 4node 5node 6node 7node 8 node 12 p node 22 p node 32 p node 42 p node 52 p node 62 p node 72 p .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 in this study we report a research where we develop several prediction model for predict the risk factor of breast cancer .
 specially we use five decision tree method .
 furthermore we evaluate performance of model accord to predictive value .
 mds be do to identify homogenous group of classification technique .
 we estimate rfs rate accord to the decision tree method based on the analysis .
 current evidence support a clear association between clinical and pathologic factor and reduce rfs in breast cancer .
 the prognostic factor influence recurrence and survival can be divide into intrinsic which be relate to the characteristic of the tumor histologic feature axillary lymph node metastases tumor size hormonal receptor status histologic and nuclear grade stage lymphovascular invasion pericapsular involvement of lymph node and perineural invasion and extrinsic host factors-age menopausal status age of menarche family history of cancer the type and adequacy of treatment-surgery radiotherapy chemotherapy hormonal therapy .
 the incidence of recurrence be great and survival decrease with large tumor size high histologic grade presence of lymphovascular invasion involvement of axillary node by tumor negative estrogen receptor status and young age carter et 1989 and henson et 1991 .
 generally five-year recurrence-free survival be range from to in all population in breast cancer patient .
 the cox regression model be the much common tool for investigate simultaneously the influence of several factor on the survival time of patient .
 but it give no estimate of the degree of separation of the different subgroup .
 in the literature there be several report about a separation of patient in subgroup with different prognosis for survival .
 report that clinician often experience difficulty apply standard statistical method to assess the interaction between clinical variable determine the cumulative effect of this variable on survival and translate this information into appropriate management because of the complex presentation of patient with unknown primary carcinoma .
 hence they show use kaplan meier analysis together with crt in patient with unknown primary carcinoma .
 show to determine if src activity be a marker for poor clinical prognosis in colon carcinoma patient and analyzed a significant association between elevate src activity and short overall survival of all patient by kaplan meier analysis .
 stark and pfeiffer report that classification tree id3 chaid and crt be well-suited for exploratory datum analysis in complex datum set in veterinary epidemiology .
 report a new prognostic classification scheme for node negative breast cancer patient .
 according to the crt analysis for rfs they find that tumor size and grade be the much important factor for prognosis of this group of patient .
 additionally age and estrogen receptor status be the other factor .
 in study we find the similar prognostic factor with metod for rfs in breast cancer patient .
 the node 2 tumor large than cm and have not hormonal treatment consist of 19 patient with a bad prognosis recurrence for rfs median month for rfs .
 patient with low grade hg i breast cancer have a well prognosis than those with high grade carcinoma .
 present study have show a statistically significant short rfs in patient with high grade hg iii tumor than those with low grade tumor p .
 in breast cancer patient tumor metastasis to axillary lymph node be a significant risk factor for survival outcome or development of metastatic disease .
 in present study patient have 4 positive axillary lymph node node 6 have a statistically significant low survival than node 1 and 2 p and p respectively .
 age at menarche have be show to be a risk factor for the development of primary breast cancer .
 evidence indicate that lifetime estrogen exposure may be a critical factor in breast carcinogenesis .
 however prognostic influence on breast cancer once it have present be uncertain .
 in some study they find no association between age at menarche and outcome in patient with primary breast cancer .
 on the contrary report that early age at menarche modestly increase mortality .
 in study we find that the age of menarche as a second important risk factor for survival .
 in this study we find that perform well than chaid quest id3 and crt technique .
 furthermore we estimate rfs rate use kaplan meier analysis accord to the analysis .
 as a result we recommend to use decision tree method together with kaplan meier analysis to determine risk factor and effect of this factor on survival .
 we compare method by use a real datum set in order to provide information on general tendency of datum structure assess the effect of specific variable on survival in datum set and help researcher to select good method for solve problem of classification .
 there be limited datum on sufficiency of classification effort by only one method .
 on the basis of this consideration we suggest that datum should be well explore and process by high performance model method .
 researchers should avoid assessment of datum by use only one method in future study focusing on breast cancer or any other clinical condition .
 in addition to role in vasoconstriction et be also involve in mitogenesis deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis and the proliferation of many cell type .
 four isoform of et have be identify in human plasma and of those et-1 be the major form .
 et act via receptor and 3 et receptor eta etb etc have be identify .
 et-1 bind both eta and etb .
 et also have a role in cancer especially as paracrine and autocrine mediator .
 in vivo study have demonstrate an increase in et-1 production in several type of malignant cell such as pancreatic colon and breast cancer cell line .
 yamashita and colleague show that there be a high concentration of et-1 in tissue from cancerous breast than in healthy breast tissue .
 et-1 and receptor eta and etb be overexpressed in breast carcinoma .
 et-1 release from breast cancer cell bind eta receptor on breast fibroblast .
 in vivo and in vitro study have show that breast fibroblast stimulate breast cancer cell by paracrine manner .
 big et-1 be a precursor of et-1 .
 metabolism of circulate big et-1 and et-1 be measure in healthy volunteer .
 it be suggest that because of long half-life big et-1 reflect the activity of endothelin system with great sensitivity than do et-1 itself .
 human breast cancer cell contain endothelin convert enzyme which convert big et-1 to et-1 .
 in a few study the level of et-1 be high in breast cancer tissue than in healthy breast tissue however to knowledge the clinical significance of serum big et-1 level have not be evaluate in breast cancer patient .
 in this study we investigate serum big et-1 level in patient with breast cancer and whether big et-1 can be use as a marker of breast cancer .
 patient and method .
 the study subject consist of 75 female patient age range 83 year median age 48 year with histologically confirm invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast and healthy female control age range 52 year median age 47 year .
 the subject with breast cancer be divide into 3 group accord to the clinical presentation of disease .
 the fourth group consist of healthy control .
 group a subject n 26 be patient with primary breast cancer that have not metastasized .
 serum sample from those patient be collect before the initiation of a specific therapy or surgical intervention .
 all patient in group a have undergo modify radical mastectomy .
 excised tumor be classify accord to tumor-nodes-metastasis system table 1 .
 in group a the subgroup be classify accord to tumor size t1 tumor size 2 cm t2 tumor size 2 cm lymph node status node negative n1 node positive and receptor status estrogen progesterone receptor er pr negative r1 er pr positive table 1 .
 table .
 characteristic of subject with newly diagnose nonmetastatic primary breast cancer .
 group of patientspercent stage stage stage stage stage .
 tumor size t1 2 t2 2 .
 ln status ln n1 .
 receptor status er er pr r1 er pr unknown rx .
 full-size table .
 er pr estrogen receptor progesterone receptor status .
 view within article .
 group b n 33 consist of patient with metastatic breast cancer .
 in that group all patient except for 4 who have metastatic disease at diagnosis have undergo modify radical mastectomy and have receive adjuvant chemotherapy radiotherapy and hormone therapy or a combination of those treatment .
 this subject have progressive disease .
 serum sample be collect before the initiation of a new chemotherapeutic regimen .
 group b patient be subgrouped accord to the site of v1 visceral metastases v2 local or bone metastasis table 2 .
 table .
 characteristic of subject with metastatic breast cancer who have be treat for disease .
 group of patientspercent initial stage iia39 iiib39 .
 treatment neoadjuvant adjuvant hormonal .
 metastatic site brain13 visceral metastasis v1 bone local metastasis v2 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 group c n 16 consist of off-therapy patient who have undergo modify radical mastectomy and have receive chemotherapy radiotherapy hormonal therapy or a combination of those treatment table 3 .
 cancer have be in complete remission for 5 year .
 group d n consist of healthy control .
 table .
 characteristic of off-therapy subject breast cancer have be in remission for at least 5 year .
 group of patientspercent stage stage stage stage stage .
 treatment neoadjuvant adjuvant hormonal therapy425 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 laboratory examination .
 all blood sample be collect in specimen tube contain ethylenediaminetetra-acetic acid edta and be centrifuged .
 plasma supernatant be store at plasma level of big et-1 be measure with an enzyme immunoassay kit phoenix belmont california usa .
 statistical analysis .
 spss software statistical package for the social science version ssps inc chicago ill usa be use for statistical analysis .
 the result be express as the median value with the standard deviation .
 the chi-square and mann whitney u test be also use .
 difference among the group be determine with the mann whitney u test .
 a p value of little than be consider statistically significant .
 result .
 the median serum big et-1 level of the 75 patient with breast cancer ng ml be statistically significantly high than those of control ng ml p table 4 .
 the median serum big et-1 level of group a be ng ml be statistically significantly high than those of control group d off-therapy patient group c or patient with metastatic disease group b ng ml ng ml ng ml respectively p table 5 .
 in patient with a primary tumor in group a the serum big et-1 level do not differ with statistical significance accord to tumor size t1 tumor size 2 cm t2 tumor size 2 cm axillary node involvement lymph node ln or receptor status receptor negative r1 receptor positive p table 5 .
 in group b the median serum big et-1 level be statistically significantly high than those in of control or off-therapy p table 5 .
 in group b the big et-1 level of the patient with visceral metastasis groupb-v1 do not differ from those of patient with bone or local metastasis groupb-v2 .
 no statistical significance in big et-1 level be observe between off- therapy patient and control p .
 table .
 big et-1 level in subject with breast cancer patient and in control .
 group of patientsmedian age year big et-1 ng ml breast cancer patients7548 52 .
 full-size table .
 p .
 view within article .
 table .
 serum big et-1 level of each group study .
 group designationsubgroups of patientsbig et-1 level ng ml group tumor size 2 tumor size 2 axillary node axillary node er pr er pr .
 group visceral bone or local .
 group .
 group .
 full-size table .
 p er pr estrogen receptor progesterone receptor status .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 several pre-clinical and clinical study in patient with any of a variety of malignancy suggest that et system influence tumor growth and progression .
 women with breast cancer have be show to exhibit statistically significantly high expression of et-1 than do woman without breast cancer .
 et-1 staining of ductal carcinoma in-situ have intensity between carcinoma and normal breast cancer .
 although the physiological role of et-1 in human breast cancer have not be well define increase tissue level of et-1 have implication for tumor growth and cell proliferation .
 et act via receptor eta and etb .
 recently wlfing and colleague detect elevate level of et-1 in of primary breast cancer .
 furthermore of breast carcinoma be eta receptor positive and of breast carcinoma show etb receptor positivity .
 however previous study show et receptor presence be show only on the breast fibroblast and stromal cell .
 et-1 be a mitogenic factor for breast fibroblast .
 on the other hand breast fibroblast can stimulate the proliferation of breast cancer cell by secrete insulin like growth factor i and ii which be mitogenic for breast cancer cell .
 big et-1 be the biological precursor of et-1 .
 big et itself have no know physiological activity .
 it be recently demonstrate that human breast cancer cell express endothelin convert enzyme which convert big et-1 to et-1 .
 in the breast the conversion of big et-1 to et-1 contribute to the paracrine-stimulated growth of breast fibroblast .
 big et-1 have a half-life of 23 min and be mainly eliminate from kidney and liver .
 plasma half-life of big et-1 be much long than that of et-1 in man .
 furthermore et-1 secretion by endothelial cell be from the basolateral compartment where it be avidly bind circulate et-1 level may underestimate local concentration .
 thus for investigation of the secretory activity of the et-1-system measurement of big et-1 level may be a well approach .
 we show elevate serum big et-1 level in female patient with breast cancer .
 this find suggest that presence of the tumor cause an increase in plasma big et-1 level .
 yamashita and colleague find no correlation between factor prognostic for the breast cancer such as tumor size lymph node or hormone receptor status and the et-1 level .
 in study we also find no association between those factor and serum level of big et-1 in the subject with breast cancer .
 lack of correlation between plasma big-e and tumor size can be explain by a difference in the production and secretion rate of et in the individual tumor .
 serum big et level be measure in patient with hepatocellular cancer hcc .
 plasma level of big et be find elevate in those patient .
 successful tumor embolisation result in a decrease in circulate big et-1 level .
 on the other hand recurrence of hcc be accompany with increase plasma big et-1 level .
 raised level of big et-1 have be demonstrate in the plasma of patient with colorectal cancer and the principal source of this increase production have be localized to epithelial cancer cell .
 in colorectal cancer patient with liver metastases have significantly high level of big et-1 than those of localized disease .
 in contrast to other in study patient with primary nonmetastatic breast cancer have high serum level of big et-1 than do patient with metastatic disease all of whom have undergo mastectomy and or have receive chemotherapy .
 this difference may be due to local therapy and systemic antineoplastic give for the treatment of breast cancer .
 in the other study big et-1 level be measure in newly diagnose patient with metastatic disease before the initiation of any treatment surgery or chemotherapy .
 however in the present study patient with metastatic disease have already receive treatment for disease and serum sample be collect after the diagnosis of metastasis .
 serum big et-1 level of off-therapy patient be little than those of metastatic .
 this datum suggest that big et-1 level seem to change with the treatment .
 et-1 affect the metastatic potential of cancer cell by stimulate angiogenesis .
 recently wulfing and colleague show that in breast cancer tissue et-1 and eta- etb receptor expression be correlated with vascular endothelial growth factor expression and angiogenesis .
 the role of et-1 in metastasis be demonstrate in a study in which tumor-produced et-1 induce osteoblastic metastasis in a breast cancer cell line via eta receptor .
 in that investigation the blockage of eta receptor inhibit osteoblastic metastasis in a breast cancer cell culture .
 in study patient with metastatic breast cancer have high serum big et-1 level than do control .
 however no difference be find in the serum big et-1 level in patient with bone local or visceral metastasis perhaps because of the small number of patient in each group .
 in addition to role in tumor growth and metastasis et-1 and et receptor may predict the prognosis of patient with any of several type of cancer .
 in patient with nonsmall cell lung carcinoma et-1 expression be associate with a poor prognosis .
 in another study of patient with breast cancer et-1 eta-etb receptor expression be correlated with low disease free and overall survival .
 and colleague suggest that in patient with big et-1 level may be prognostic for posttreatment failure in patient with advance nasopharyngeal carcinoma .
 in conclusion statistically significantly elevate serum big et-1 level be find in subject with primary or metastatic breast cancer .
 local and systemic treatment may affect the big et-1 level in patient with breast cancer .
 the serum big et-1 level seem to be a sensitive indicator of et-1 activation in patient with breast cancer .
 further study be warrant to elucidate the prognostic importance of big et-1 in female patient with breast cancer .
 to a large degree this be due to a paucity of evidence-based clinical trial datum for old patient with breast cancer .
 indeed many breast cancer clinical trial have tend to exclude elderly individual mainly either on the basis of age alone comorbidity or both .
 the international society of geriatric oncology siog create a taskforce to review the publish literature and to provide evidence-based recommendation for the diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer in elderly individual .
 this report outline this recommendation and identify area in which the exist evidence be weak and where level i evidence be need to underpin good practice .
 full-size image high-quality image 462k figure breast cancer have a high incidence in elderly woman .
 view within article .
 incidence and general characteristic .
 breast cancer be the much common cancer in woman in the with 115 million new case per year of which of all cancer in woman be in europe and in north breast cancer be the lead cause of cancer mortality in woman worldwide in woman die of the disease .
 the crude incidence of breast cancer in north america be 1419 per woman a year and breast cancer-related mortality be 298 per by contrast incidence be per woman a year and mortality per woman in northern and western for those age 65 year and old crude incidence rate be 4327 per woman in north america and per in northern and western europe corresponding breast cancer mortality figure be 1212 and per woman similar incidence and mortality figure be find in south america argentina and uruguay new zealand and australia and in central and eastern europe czech republic figure 2 show the age-specific incidence and mortality of breast cancer in develop and develop country .
 full-size image 57k high-quality image 549k figure age-specific incidence and mortality of breast cancer per woman in develop and develop countries1 .
 view within article .
 advanced age at diagnosis of breast cancer be associate with much favourable tumour biology as indicate by increased hormone sensitivity attenuate erbb2 overexpression and low grade and proliferative index see reference 1 9 in webappendix however elderly patient be much likely to present with large and much advance tumour and recent report suggest that the involvement of lymph node increase with furthermore there seem to be no major difference in outcome in stage-matched patient as age nevertheless elderly patient be little likely to be treat accord to accept treatment and undertreatment can as a consequence have a strong negative effect on the explanation for this age-related difference in approach to treatment be complex and include physician and patient bias the view of relative and caregivers psychosocial issue cost and proximity to the oncology or radiotherapy centre .
 despite the fact that breast cancer occur mainly in elderly patient this population be substantially under-represented in clinical trial .
 age be a significant predictor of whether old patient with breast cancer be offer entry into clinical when in fact old patient be just as likely as young patient to participate if give the .
 collaboration with geriatrician and comprehensive geriatric assessment be of paramount importance in detect unaddressed problem improve functional status and possibly survival in elderly patient with because comorbidity and functional status significantly affect prognosis and treatment thorough consideration must be give to the overall health of elderly patient .
 a sizeable proportion of patient old than year with operable breast cancer die of non-cancer-related age alone however should not be a barrier to treatment .
 screening for breast cancer in elderly individual .
 population-based mammography screening be generally regard to be effective for woman age the picture be little clear for woman over year some study show no association between screening and reduce breast cancer mortality for those age 74 whereas other retrospective and model study suggest a potential survival benefit even in patient over year of the dutch experience with population-based mammography screening of patient up to 75 year be .
 biologically it be not likely that mammography screening be little effective in woman old than year .
 the accuracy of mammography ie sensitivity and specificity for detect cancer even increase with advance age because of the increase in radiolucency of breast tissue .
 however the benefit of screening need to be weigh against the presence of other concurrent medical condition that would limit the patient 's life expectancy or limit the patient 's ability to tolerate cancer treatment and against the possibility of overdiagnosis or the detection of lesion that would not affect a woman 's .
 there might be cultural difference in the approach to breast cancer screening .
 europe have a preference for centrally organised screening programme with personal invitation on a population-based level .
 year be generally accept as the much appropriate target group .
 within this context the term elderly be take to include patient age year and old and recommendation for mammography beyond the target group age would not easily be give by a physician without a specific medical indication .
 in north america especially the usa breast screening be much commonly do on an individual basis rather than be population based and the decision to do screening mammography in patient above age might depend on the clinical situation .
 the american geriatric society recommend that screening should be individualised rather than set guideline by age .
 they recommend set no upper age limit as long as estimate life expectancy be 4 year or much the american cancer society advise to continue breast cancer screening as long as the individual be in good health and a candidate for .
 recommendations .
 there be no strong datum support or oppose the systematic use of mammography in woman over year of age .
 cultural difference in the approach to breast cancer screening should be take into account .
 in well-organised population-based breast cancer screening programme mammography screening up to the age of 75 year be appropriate .
 in individual patient the decision should be individualised to take into account the risk and benefit of screening patient preference physiological age and life expectancy .
 treatment of early stage breast cancer .
 multidisciplinary treatment planning should be use to integrate local and systemic therapy as well as sequence .
 surgery .
 several treatment guideline and practice standard have be develop for the surgical management of patient with breast cancer see reference 15 in webappendix .
 for the elderly population breast cancer surgery-related mortality be low range from to alternative to conventional surgery include outpatient surgery32 or surgery under local which be preferably undertake when family support be present .
 past assumption that elderly patient should receive little aggressive form of breast cancer treatment and about reduce life expectancy have mean that hormonal treatment alone without surgery have be consider a reasonable treatment option for elderly woman with breast cancer with limited life expectancy mainly in frail patient or the very old eg year the effect of omit surgery on overall survival be not clear and differ in different study table 1 .
 four of this trial compare tamoxifen monotherapy with surgery the surgery alone arm be currently regard as suboptimum in term of treatment since no adjuvant hormone treatment be give .
 the group for research on endocrine therapy in the elderly greta trial use a much informative design where surgery and adjuvant tamoxifen38 show a non-significant benefit in overall survival compare with tamoxifen alone despite a long follow-up .
 much importantly a significantly high proportion of patient treat with tamoxifen alone experience local relapse for which subsequent salvage breast cancer surgery would have be do .
 another study show an increase in breast cancer mortality in the group who do not have surgery 455 woman age year or much with operable breast cancer be randomised to surgery and tamoxifen or tamoxifen there be an increase in breast cancer mortality with no surgery hazard ratio 168 ci 115 247 and in overall mortality 129 159 .
 a cochrane meta-analysis have confirm that primary hormonal treatment with tamoxifen be inferior to surgery with or without hormonal treatment for the local control and progression-free survival of breast cancer in medically fit old however surgery do not result in significantly well overall .
 table .
 effect of omit surgery on overall survival and local recurrence in elderly woman with breast cancer .
 patient nfollow-up monthstreatmentoverall survivallocal recurrenceref surgery and surgery and .
 full-size table .
 no significant difference between tamoxifen versus surgery and tamoxifen or surgery alone .
 significant difference between tamoxifen versus surgery and tamoxifen or surgery alone .
 significance not report .
 view within article .
 neoadjuvant treatment with aromatase inhibitor have show well response rate than have tamoxifen in postmenopausal patient with breast there be no specific datum compare aromatase inhibitor alone with surgery combine with an aromatase inhibitor in elderly patient .
 this approach warrant far investigation preferably in old patient who have a limited life expectancy and where the omission of surgery be unlikely to affect breast cancer specific mortality .
 breast conservation treatment .
 breast conservation treatment consist of breast-conserving surgery lumpectomy or partial mastectomy and postoperative radiotherapy be now recommend as the standard of care for patient of all age with early disease see reference 16 and 17 in webappendix .
 large randomised study have clearly show that breast conservation treatment have similar efficacy to mastectomy .
 difference in disease-free survival or overall survival be similar between the two approach although a significant increase in local recurrence be see in the breast conservation treatment group especially in young patient .
 much elderly woman with primary breast cancer be candidate for breast conservation treatment .
 however available datum suggest that old patient be little likely to receive such the conclusion of large randomised trial of breast conservation treatment versus mastectomy be not easily apply to elderly patient because woman over the age of year be exclude from this trial .
 however small study involve patient age year or older have document that breast conservation treatment in comparison with mastectomy be associate with well quality-of-life46 and be preferred by much elderly compare with mastectomy .
 the association between a microscopically close or positive resection margin and the subsequent risk of breast tumour recurrence after conservative surgery and radiotherapy be controversial .
 many retrospective study have report a significantly increase rate of breast tumour recurrence in those who receive radiotherapy with positive microscopic resection margin compare with those with negative margin see reference 18 24 in webappendix .
 this association have also be report in three prospective randomised trial that analyse the microscopic margin status and subsequent risk of breast tumour recurrence in patient undergo conservative surgery and several factor have be associate with a low risk for breast tumour recurrence in patient with positive margin .
 in some series a positive margin that be characterised as focal have be associate with a low risk of breast tumour recurrence when compare with much extensively involve this patient have be consider candidate for conservative surgery and radiotherapy especially in the absence of an associate extensive intraductal in the european organisation for research and treatment of cancer eortc trial the effect of positive margin on local recurrence be highly significant in woman under year of however significance disappear in the old patient .
 as in young patient an attempt should be make to achieve negative surgical margin .
 if not achieve the management of close or positive margin need to be address by the multidisciplinary meeting .
 depending on patient 's age comorbid condition or life expectancy surgical re-excision be discuss as well as additional radiotherapy in the tumour bed boost .
 however radiotherapy should not be consider as a substitute for adequate surgery with negative margin .
 total mastectomy .
 as in young patient total mastectomy remain a surgical option for patient who prefer it over breast conservation treatment and for those who decline or be not fit for postoperative breast radiotherapy .
 mastectomy be also indicate in patient with large primary lesion or tumour that be approach by breast conservation treatment eg multicentric disease or even large unifocal tumour .
 mastectomy be also indicate as salvage treatment after breast tumour recurrence after breast conservation treatment or when cosmetic result of breast conservation be likely to be poor .
 axillary surgery .
 axillary lymph node dissection should be do in patient with clinical evidence of the involvement of axillary lymph node .
 however for those without clinical lymph node involvement the indication for upfront axillary lymph node dissection have be little clear for the elderly population and such surgery have recently become largely redundant for this subgroup because of the possibility of a sentinel lymph node procedure .
 before the sentinel lymph node procedure old patient with breast cancer be little likely to undergo axillary lymph node dissection than be young patient for several first although generally consider a safe procedure axillary lymph node dissection can be associate with postoperative numbness paraesthesia pain and muscle weakness which contribute to a subsequent reduction in quality of one study however have show that old patient experience fewer axillary lymph node dissection-related arm symptom than do young second axillary lymph node dissection be consider a stage rather than a therapeutic procedure for breast cancer and be use to determine pathological nodal involvement and therefore to dictate need for adjuvant treatment .
 however axillary lymph node dissection do not usually affect systemic treatment choice in elderly clinically node-negative patient with tumour that be oestrogen-receptor-positive or small .
 third several study have show no difference in outcome in old patient with small tumour without palpable lymph node when axillary lymph node dissection be in elderly patient in whom the result of an axillary lymph node dissection will not affect adjuvant chemotherapy decision include those with small tumour and low risk of nodal involvement it might be appropriate to omit axillary lymph node dissection .
 in such case other factor such as quality of life and perception of body image should be weigh and discuss with the patient .
 in recent year biopsy of sentinel lymph node a minimally invasive highly sensitive and reproducible technique have be introduce as an alternative to axillary lymph node sentinel lymph node biopsy have be show to be a safe and accurate method of predict axillary status in patient with breast cancer see reference 25 28 in webappendix include those age year or sentinel lymph node biopsy negate the requirement for axillary lymph node dissection and the result over-treatment of many sentinel lymph node biopsy be now widely consider as an acceptable treatment option in patient of all age with tumour size little than 2 3 cm and no clinical evidence of axillary elderly patient with breast cancer be ideal candidate for biopsy of sentinel lymph node and should be encourage to undergo this procedure .
 finding from such biopsy in old patient with breast cancer significantly affect subsequent treatment decision include adjuvant systemic treatment .
 controversy exist regard the need for complementary axillary lymph node dissection after a positive sentinel lymph node be find especially when the axilla be explore during surgery .
 the risk of macroscopic disease be limited and microscopic disease will probably not be use for choose adjuvant treatment such as chemotherapy .
 van zee and have publish a nomogram to predict the risk of subsequent nodal metastasis on the basis of the result of the sentinel lymph node biopsy and tumour characteristic .
 this nomogram be develop in patient of all age but be particularly useful when decide whether to do an axillary lymph node dissection in old patient .
 recommendations .
 surgery should not be deny to patient with breast cancer who be old than year of age and should not differ from procedure offer to young patient unless patient preference dictate .
 axillary lymph node dissection should be use when there be clinical suspicion of axillary lymph node involvement or high-risk tumour since adjuvant treatment depend on the pathological result of the axillary lymph node dissection .
 biopsy of sentinel lymph node be a safe alternative to axillary lymph node dissection in patient with clinically node negative tumour .
 elderly patient with tumour size of little than 2 3 cm and no clinical evidence of axillary involvement should be offer a sentinel lymph node biopsy .
 controversy exist with regard to the need for an axillary lymph node dissection after a positive sentinel lymph node biopsy .
 radiotherapy .
 tolerability be not a limit factor for radiotherapy in old patient .
 huguenin and colleagues71 show no important toxicity in woman over the age of 75 year .
 similarly whyckoff and colleagues72 compare a group of woman age 65 78 year with a young group and show no high toxicity in woman age 65 year or old .
 we will discuss radiotherapy after breast-conserving surgery and postmastectomy .
 after breast-conserving surgery .
 postoperative radiotherapy after breast-conserving surgery combine with appropriate systemic treatment have be show to achieve reduction in absolute risk of 5 year local recurrence from to and a reduction in 15 year absolute breast cancer mortality risk from to a slight but noticeable increase in non-breast cancer mortality in woman who receive radiotherapy mainly heart disease and lung cancer be probably relate to the use of old suboptimum radiotherapy regimen and technique .
 despite this benefit elderly patient continue to receive radiotherapy little frequently after breast-conserving surgery than young a number of randomised trial usually limited to an upper age limit of year show a significant reduction in risk of local recurrence from postoperative breast irradiation but no effect on overall survival .
 some trial have find age to be a factor that predict for a low risk of local recurrence after whole breast irradiation compare with conservative surgery several study have specifically assess the benefit of radiotherapy in elderly patient .
 all large study have show a decrease in the relative rate of breast tumour recurrence .
 however the absolute incidence of relapse as well as the absolute benefit from radiotherapy tend to be low and datum on overall survival be generally absent with the exception of one some have conclude that radiotherapy be avoid in low-risk old whereas other have suggest it offer benefit in term of slight reduction in local relapse rate and improvement in overall survival .
 the early breast cancer trialists group overview involve about woman with breast cancer show that the 5 year risk of local recurrence after breast-conserving surgery be high in woman age under year compare with those age over year of 3459 in this age group the absolute effect of radiotherapy after breast-conserving surgery on local recurrence mainly in the conserve breast be also great for woman age under year than in old woman 5 year risk reduction of v respectively although the risk reduction be still significant in old woman table 2 .
 postoperative breast irradiation should therefore be consider in all patient undergo breast-conserving surgery irrespective of age .
 for woman age over year with a low risk of recurrence eg small tumour 2cm clear margin axillary node-negative hormone-receptor positive with plan to receive endocrine treatment the absolute reduction in local recurrence tend to be slight and mortality be usually associate with non-breast-cancer-related condition .
 the cancer and leukemia group b calg-b trial in which woman age year or old with oestrogen-receptor-positive breast cancer be randomally assign after breast-conserving surgery to tamoxifen alone or to breast radiotherapy and tamoxifen show only a reduction in breast tumour recurrence at 5 year v the use of radiotherapy in such patient should therefore depend on a multidimensional assessment include the absolute benefit of radiotherapy comorbidity life expectancy and patient shorter course of radiotherapy such as hypofractionation be under there be trial in progress to assess the omission of breast radiotherapy in low risk old patient .
 table .
 effect of age and radiotherapy on local recurrence in patient who undergo breast-conserving surgery73 .
 5 year local recurrence risk absolute risk reduction breast-conserving surgerybreast-conserving surgery plus radiotherapy years331122 years13311 .
 full-size table .
 v woman age year .
 view within article .
 a supplementary dose boost of radiation to the excision site after breast-conserving surgery with clear margin and gy of whole breast radiation improve 5 year local recurrence v compare with no boost although the absolute benefit decrease with age the relative effect of reduce the local recurrence by nearly half remain similar in all age the year reduction in risk of local recurrence in patient over the age of year be v in favour of a boost table 3 partial breast irradiation confine to the area around the primary tumour be be explore in prospective trial and have the potential advantage of much short overall treatment time .
 table .
 year actuarial local recurrence with and without supplementary radiotherapy in patient who undergo breast-conserving surgery for early breast cancer89 .
 boost boost total population aged year .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 postmastectomy radiotherapy .
 there be limited level i evidence on the effect of postmastectomy radiotherapy in old patient .
 the large be restrict to patient young than year .
 by contrast with radiotherapy after breast-conserving surgery the absolute effect of postmastectomy radiotherapy on the 5 year risk of local recurrence mainly in the chest wall or lymph node have be show to be independent of in this meta-analysis of woman who have a mastectomy axillary clearance and node-positive disease reduction in recurrence average about in all age group however few woman age over year be include in the trial assess .
 a retrospective analysis from the us surveillance epidemiology and end result seer medicare datum from 1992 to 1999 identify 11594 woman age year or old who have undergo mastectomy for invasive breast at a median follow-up of 62 year postmastectomy radiotherapy be associate with a significant improvement in survival hazard ratio ci in high-risk patient but not in patient at low or intermediate risk .
 in a much small retrospective cohort of 233 woman age year or over with t3 tumour or with four or much involve node referred to the canadian british columbia cancer agency92 between 1989 and 1997 the risk of recurrence be significantly low in woman treat by postmastectomy radiotherapy compare with surgery alone v at a median follow-up of 55 year .
 on multivariate analysis high-grade histology and omission of postmastectomy radiotherapy predict local recurrence .
 increasing number of involve node be associate with impair survival and increase risk of distant metastases .
 in such retrospective series there be probably a selection bias in favour of offering postmastectomy radiotherapy to fitter patient with high risk disease .
 in principle patient should be offer postmastectomy chest wall radiotherapy if they have four or much involve node a t3 or t4 tumour or positive resection section this recommendation be based on the finding of a randomised control trial94 that show a reduction in locoregional failure and a year survival advantage in high-risk postmenopausal patient who receive comprehensive locoregional radiotherapy plus tamoxifen versus tamoxifen alone .
 the survival advantage only emerge after 5 year .
 therefore in old patient with a life expectancy of little than 5 year decision regard the use of adjuvant radiotherapy should be based on consideration of locoregional control .
 for patient with t1 t2 tumour with one to three positive node consensus guideline of the american society of clinical the american society for therapeutic and the national institute of health96 indicate that there be insufficient evidence to recommend routine postmastectomy radiotherapy .
 additionally for node-negative patient with other risk factor eg grade 3 histology or lymphovascular invasion the role of adjuvant radiotherapy be uncertain .
 for both of this group the role of adjuvant postmastectomy irradiation be currently be explore by the uk medical research council eortc supremo trial for which there be no upper age limit of eligibility .
 recommendations .
 radiotherapy after breast-conserving surgery and adjuvant systemic treatment decrease the risk of local relapse and should be consider in all elderly patient with breast cancer .
 the absolute benefit on local relapse might be small in elderly patient with low-risk tumour but a meta-analysis by the early breast cancer trialists collaborative group ebctcg show no difference in proportional reduction in local recurrence risk by the effect of radiotherapy on mortality cause by breast cancer or by any other cause be little clear and far stratification be not available .
 that radiotherapy will improve overall survivalwhich be much much affect by comorbidity age or the occurrence of distant metastases than local relapseis unlikely .
 a decision to offer radiotherapy will need to take into account patient health and functional status risk of mortality from comorbidity particularly cardiac and vascular and the risk of local recurrence .
 in principle postmastectomy chest-wall irradiation be indicate if patient have four or much involve node or a t3 or t4 tumour .
 in old patient with a life expectancy of little than 5 year a decision of whether to implement adjuvant radiotherapy should be based on consideration of locoregional control alone .
 limited datum be available to support the use of systematic postmastectomy chest-wall radiotherapy in patient with one to three positive node or who be node-negative with other risk factor .
 additional dose of radiation to the tumour bed should be consider in old patient after breast-conserving treatment and systemic treatment to decrease risk of local relapse .
 adjuvant hormone treatment .
 a primary issue be whether or not hormone treatment be necessary in all elderly patient with hormone-receptor-positive early breast cancer .
 for woman with minimum-risk disease treatment decision should be based on a risk benefit analysis that take into account the low relapse rate within the first year the potential reduction in ipsilateral and contralateral breast cancer relapse the patient 's life expectancy and treatment-related adverse event .
 patient with oestrogen-receptor-negative and progesterone-receptor-negative tumour should not receive hormone treatment .
 data show that there be no age-related difference in the efficacy of tamoxifen .
 a meta-analysis by the ebctcg show that for hormone-receptor-positive breast cancer treatment with 5 year of adjuvant tamoxifen reduce the yearly death rate due to breast cancer by independent of age compare with no hormonal treatment figure 3 another study show that adjuvant tamoxifen significantly improve 15 year overall survival by compare with no adjuvant hormone treatment in woman age 66 much large phase iii trial investigate the role of aromatase inhibitor versus tamoxifen sequentially or head-to-head have also show no differential effect of age on the relative efficacy of endocrine treatment see reference 29 35 in webappendix .
 a specific age-related subanalysis of the ma17 trial show a significant benefit in the subgroup of woman age under year this benefit lose significance above this threshold possibly because of non-breast cancer death which stress the compete issue of life expectancy estimation and control of side-effect even if overall the absolute benefit of letrozole after 5 year of tamoxifen be similar in the different age .
 full-size image 37k high-quality image 284k figure relative recurrence and mortality reduction per age group with adjuvant tamoxifen compare with no hormonal treatment97 .
 view within article .
 as with young patient the choice of adjuvant hormone treatment in old patient should be determine by the risk of relapse tumour biology and potential adverse event .
 several large randomised study have compare the efficacy and tolerability of aromatase inhibitor and tamoxifen in the treatment of early breast cancer see reference 29 35 in webappendix .
 in this study aromatase inhibitor be well than tamoxifen in term of disease-free survival although there be little difference in rate of overall survival .
 except for the abcsg8-arno trial there be no upper age limit and the median age be between 61 and 64 year .
 in term of tolerability treatment with tamoxifen be associate with an increase risk of endometrial cancer and thromboembolic event such as deep venous thrombosis pulmonary embolism and cerebrovascular accident .
 however the small increase in mortality from endometrial cancer and thromboembolic episode be much small than the mortality reduction as a result of death avoid from contralateral breast cancer and cardiovascular event in patient between and year of of note age have be show to be relate to alteration in the metabolism of tamoxifen result in high level of tamoxifen and metabolite in elderly woman but whether this lead to alter efficacy or side-effect be a low dose of tamoxifen might prove to be as useful and potentially little toxic than standard dose as suggest by several biological surrogate endpoint study in a small randomised this area deserve far investigation .
 aromatase inhibitor be much likely to cause muscle and osteoarticular pain osteoporosis and bone fracture than tamoxifen a consideration in elderly patient who have low bone mineral density than young patient .
 the optimum use of bisphosphonate to prevent bone loss in patient receive aromatase inhibitor be currently under the oral bisphosphonate be much commonly use for the treatment of osteoporosis however preliminary datum suggest that zoledronic acid give intravenously every 6 month be also effective in prevent bone as a general rule the lack of analysis of the safety profile of aromatase inhibitor accord to age be regrettable and common even in the large trial of such there be evidence from the breast international group 1-98 trial that the risk of cardiovascular event be slightly raise with aromatase inhibitor compare with tamoxifen .
 however since this evidence have not be report in other trial compare an aromatase inhibitor with tamoxifen nor in the ma17 trial that compare an aromatase inhibitor with placebo after tamoxifen-based adjuvant treatment we speculate that this be not a class-related side-effect .
 cognitive impairment have also be describe in association with adjuvant hormonal but the datum be and insufficient to confirm this association or to compare the relative effect of aromatase inhibitor versus tamoxifen on cognitive function .
 tamoxifen should be start after chemotherapy be complete .
 for aromatase inhibitor there be no datum on timing relate to chemotherapy but it seem acceptable to use the same approach as that for tamoxifen .
 recommendations .
 elderly patient with hormone-sensitive breast tumour benefit from adjuvant hormone treatment .
 there be no evidence of age-related difference in the efficacy of tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitor .
 aromatase inhibitor be slightly much effective than tamoxifen but elderly patient be much vulnerable to some adverse event and safety should be an important factor in choose between tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitor .
 older patient who be candidate for endocrine treatment should be offer initial treatment with aromatase inhibitor or tamoxifen .
 for those initially treat with tamoxifen consideration should be give to change to an aromatase inhibitor after 2 3 year of tamoxifen treatment .
 adjuvant chemotherapy .
 an ebctcg meta-analysis of randomised trial do before 1995 show substantial benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy in postmenopausal woman in all age group compare with no the gain be large in those age under year of age compare with those over year figure 4 .
 the gain for patient above age year be in the same range as for those between and year but be not significant due to small number .
 full-size image 33k high-quality image 252k figure relative recurrence and mortality reduction per age group with adjuvant polychemotherapy compare with no chemotherapy97 .
 view within article .
 in general patient with hormone-receptor-negative tumour derived a greater absolute survival benefit compare with patient with hormone-sensitive tumour .
 two independent study use the seer database have show that adjuvant chemotherapy improve overall survival in elderly patient with oestrogen-receptor-negative tumor and that the benefit be similar for woman above and below the age of year .
 in one of the the benefit be restrict to patient with lymph-node-positive breast cancer .
 however the absolute benefit depend on individual patient health and on other tumour parameter such as lymph-node status tumour size and grade and erbb2 overexpression and considerable uncertainty remain regard the subgroup of old woman much likely to benefit .
 for hormone-sensitive tumour the benefit of chemotherapy be reduce and little obvious in elderly individual .
 anthracycline-containing regimen have clearly show improvement in both survival and relapse rate in node-positive postmenopausal patient under the age of year compare with no however whether this benefit also hold true for highly hormone-sensitive low-grade or intermediate grade tumour be not in a large retrospective review of four randomised trial with tumour that be lymph-node positive but which be positive or negative for oestrogen receptor old and young woman derived similar reduction in breast cancer mortality and recurrence from regimen contain much only one phase iii trial specifically design for elderly patient 65 year of age have be in this study weekly flat dose of epirubicin plus tamoxifen improve disease-free survival compare with tamoxifen alone but do not improve overall survival .
 the benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy in addition to hormone treatment in hormone-sensitive breast cancer be likely to be high in tumour that be not clearly hormone sensitive eg low level of hormone receptor absence of oestrogen or progesterone receptor high grade although no conclusive datum be available .
 with regard to choice of chemotherapy healthy old patient can receive the same regimen as young counterpart but care be warrant because elderly patient experience greater with up to of patient have treatment-related death in the calg-b retrospective at the 2 yearly breast-cancer conference in st gallen switzerland in it be recommend that four cycle of an anthracycline-containing regimen or six cycle of cyclophosphamide methotrexate and fluorouracil cmf be adequate treatment for patient with hormone-responsive for patient with disease unresponsive to hormone or those in which the hormone response be uncertain anthracycline-containing regimen with or without taxane be favour .
 however this recommendation referred to the general population and the panellist acknowledge that special consideration apply to elderly woman .
 anthracycline-containing regimen have be show to have well efficacy than cmf and this effect be not age the potential toxicity induce by taxane add concurrently or sequentially to anthracycline be likely to challenge the benefit expect from chemotherapy .
 therefore this combination should be confine to biologically aggressive tumour in fit elderly woman .
 taxane-based regimen also replace anthracycline rather than be add .
 although not specifically aim at elderly patient a recent study show that docetaxel in combination with cyclophosphamide be well in term of disease-free survival compare with four cycle of the combination of docetaxel and cyclophosphamide might be a reasonable alternative for high-risk patient certainly for those at cardiac risk for anthracycline .
 adjuvant chemotherapy be an option for elderly patient .
 however safety concern should be consider .
 the use of anthracycline-containing regimen have be associate with a year cardiac failure rate for woman age 66 year compare with for cmf recipient and for control who receive no adjuvant by contrast cmf have be show to be little effective and be also poorly tolerate in old compare with mortality of among 545 woman age 65 year or old in the international breast cancer study group treatment-related mortality of with chemotherapy have also be report in patient age 65 year or old in four calg-b and must be consider when choose adjuvant chemotherapy .
 therefore in the absence of cardiac contraindication four course of anthracycline-containing regimen should be consider in the elderly .
 docetaxel and cyclophosphamide might be an alternative certainly in patient at cardiac anthracycline-containing regimen and cmf have threshold dose below which efficacy become inferior .
 thus dose reduction should be avoid in a curative setting .
 study into the use of adapt chemotherapy regimen with limited toxicity for elderly patient be ongoing .
 healthy elderly patient with node-positive breast cancer and estimate survival of year or much should be consider for much aggressive chemotherapy regimen that include anthracycline and taxane .
 treatment with adjuvant trastuzumab concurrent with taxane or after chemotherapy for a total duration of 1 year improve outcome significantly in erbb2-positive despite a significant effect on disease-free survival irrespective of age group in the herceptin adjuvant hera trial few patient age year or over have be include in this large trial and oncologist should remain cautious regard to adjuvant trastuzumab use in elderly patient .
 in all this study patient with cardiac comorbidity be exclude and in the national surgical adjuvant breast and bowel project b31 study age over year be an independent predictor of trastuzumab-associated congestive heart cardiac adverse event be much a concern in old patient who be at high risk of cardiovascular disease .
 healthy elderly patient without cardiac disease and with erbb2-positive tumour should be consider for trastuzumab treatment .
 close cardiac monitoring be essential for old patient receive trastuzumab in the adjuvant setting .
 there be no conclusive datum to confirm that colony-stimulating factor confer a survival benefit to elderly patient with breast cancer who be undergo chemotherapy despite the know benefit of colony-stimulating factor in reduce febrile neutropenia which many elderly patient be at high risk of develop .
 eortc and american society of clinical oncology asco guideline recommend the use of prophylactic colony-stimulating factor if the expect rate of febrile neutropenia be or high .
 they do not advise the systematic prophylactic use of colony-stimulating factor in all elderly patient with breast cancer receive chemotherapy with a low than risk of febrile neutropenia but state that age by itself 65 year can be a risk factor for febrile neutropenia that need to be take into consideration in the decision on use of prophylactic colony-stimulating recently some safety concern emerge concern the use of colony-stimulating factor since the risk of develop leukaemia might but this concern be not confirm by another .
 recommendations .
 treatment with adjuvant chemotherapy should not be an age-based decision but instead should take into account individual patient estimate absolute benefit life expectancy treatment tolerance and preference .
 older patient with node-positive hormone-negative breast tumour potentially derive the large benefit in survival gain .
 although not specifically validate in the elderly population year decision aide such as adjuvant online can be use to help weigh the risk and benefit of adjuvant treatment together with the patient .
 in the absence of cardiac contraindication four course of an anthracycline-containing regimen be usually preferred over cmf in elderly patient with breast cancer .
 taxanes be add to anthracycline in high-risk fit elderly woman .
 docetaxel and cyclophosphamide or cmf can replace anthracycline in patient at cardiac risk .
 in the absence of cardiac contraindication adjuvant trastuzumab should be offer to old patient with erbb2-positive breast cancer when chemotherapy be indicate but cardiac monitoring be essential .
 metastatic breast cancer .
 metastatic breast cancer be treatable but not curable .
 therefore the main aim in treat elderly patient like young patient with metastatic breast cancer be to maintain quality of life minimise symptom from disease and prolong survival without cause excessive toxicity .
 older woman be much likely than young woman to be diagnose at a much advance stage of breast cancer due to a lack of screening or delay in in select patient with low tumour burden and metastases especially bone metastases only primary tumour removal can improve hormone treatment .
 hormone treatment should be the treatment of choice for woman with oestrogen-receptor-positive or progesterone-receptor-positive tumour without life-threatening disease .
 the superiority of aromatase inhibitor as first-line treatment over tamoxifen have be show in the postmenopausal but whether the same be true beyond the age of year be suggest only in a single trial with since the benefit of aromatase inhibitor over tamoxifen be mainly in term of disease-free survival and not overall survival tamoxifen can be a valuable alternative to aromatase inhibitor if adverse event or cost be a concern .
 patient who initially respond to hormone treatment or who have prolong stable disease can have significant benefit from a subsequent line of non-cross-resistant hormone treatment eg tamoxifen when an aromatase inhibitor have be use or vice-versa or exemestane when anastrozole or letrozole be use or vice-versa .
 treatment option include tamoxifen an aromatase inhibitor a pure antioestrogen such as fulvestrant a non-cross-resistant aromatase inhibitor steroidal aromatase inhibitor when a non-steroidal aromatase inhibitor have be use or vice versa progestin or high-dose oestrogen .
 there be no evidence for the use of other form of hormone treatment in elderly patient with breast cancer with metastatic disease compare with young postmenopausal patient .
 chemotherapy .
 women old than year of age who be treat with chemotherapy for metastatic disease derive similar benefit to young older patient should not be exclude from receive chemotherapy for advance breast cancer .
 the use of chemotherapy should be consider in hormone-receptor-negative or hormone refractory patient .
 if oestrogen or progesterone receptor status be not available or not fully reliable one course of hormone treatment might be an option particularly in asymptomatic patient those without life-threatening metastases or those who have have a prolong interval between primary tumour and metastatic disease .
 preference should be give to chemotherapeutic drug with safe profile such as weekly taxane regimen new little cardiotoxic anthracycline formulation capecitabine gemcitabine and vinorelbine .
 this drug be often use in elderly patient with adapt dose compare with young patient based on pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic toxicity alteration in this population but level i evidence on this specific dosing schedule be generally monotherapy be generally favour over combination chemotherapy since the latter be generally associate with increase toxicity and little if any survival gain compare with the sequential use of single drug .
 choice of chemotherapy drug and regimen be dependent on individual patient characteristic and drug availability or reimbursement by the health system .
 since chemotherapy in this situation be only palliative the quality of life be paramount and significant toxicity be generally not acceptable .
 in principle dose reduction in elderly patient be not systematically recommend but should be consider based on pharmacological parameter and alter accord to observe strict follow-up be essential in this population in particular to avoid overtreatment and debilitating side-effect .
 chemotherapy regimen with a risk of febrile neutropenia of much than should be deliver with upfront growth factor but alternative drug eg liposomal anthracycline or regimen with little myelosuppression such as weekly dosing of anthracycline and taxane be available and do not require prophylactic administration of colony-stimulating factor .
 particular attention should be pay to supportive care since old patient be much likely to develop neutropenia than be young and generally have little functional reserve than young counterpart .
 bisphosphonates provide a supportive albeit expensive and non-life-prolonging benefit to many patient with bone metastases .
 starting bisphosphonate in woman who have bone destruction on imaging but who have normal plain radiograph be consider reasonable the safety of long-term administration of bisphosphonate in elderly patient with cancer have also be .
 targeted treatment .
 targeted treatment have be show to be useful in the treatment of breast cancer .
 in erbb2-positive patient trastuzumab should be use in conjunction with chemotherapy .
 age be a document risk factor for congestive heart failure in patient receive trastuzumab but depend probably much on pre-existing comorbidity than on age by .
 in a study of patient of all age the addition of bevacizumab to paclitaxel as first-line treatment for metastatic breast cancer show an improvement in response and disease-free there be few datum specific to the risk and benefit of bevacizumab in old patient with breast cancer however a pool analysis of patient with all type of cancer from five randomised trial show that patient over the age of 65 year be at increase risk of arterial thromboembolic event particularly when bevacizumab be give in combination with .
 recommendations .
 the goal of treat metastatic breast cancer in old patient be not different from those in young patient .
 for much patient with hormone-receptor-positive breast cancer hormonal treatment should be the first choice .
 the use of chemotherapy should be consider in patient with hormone-receptor-negative hormone-refractory or life-threatening disease .
 choice of chemotherapy drug and regimen be dependent on individual patient characteristic preference and drug availability .
 conclusion .
 elderly patient comprise a large part of the breast cancer population and there be important specific consideration for this population .
 recommendation for the treatment of breast cancer in such individual be based on evidence and consensus .
 however much of the available datum rely on retrospective study or subanalyses from general population study and there be a far need to develop prospective clinical trial for this old population of patient with breast cancer .
 search strategy and selection criterion .
 medline be choose as the primary source of information for this review .
 a search of pubmed be do for english-language article publish from to march with the follow mesh term breast neoplasm mammography radiography ultrasonography mastectomy segmental sentinel-lymph-node biopsy mammoplasty radiotherapy chemotherapy adjuvant neoadjuvant therapy tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitor .
 additionally publication consider by the reviewer to be relevant to the topic be include .
 study design be not limited to randomised control trial but also include meta-analyses review retrospective study cohort study and abstract from key international meeting .
 abstract focusing on geriatric aspect in a study include both elderly and non-elderly patient be only include if a formal publication on that study have also be publish .
 general study that analyse elderly subgroup be include to supplement available datum .
 international and regional breast cancer treatment guideline and practice guideline be also consult .
 furthermore although the international conference of harmonisation good clinical practice definition for elderly be 65 year or over an arbitrary threshold of year be use in this review for a first selection to obtain sufficient quantity of datum .
 the author consider apply the level of evidence and grade of recommendation accord to asco guideline however because much study consist of subanalyses per age group and because age cutoff be very heterogeneous in the different study we decide it be inappropriate to apply this level of evidence to grade the guideline consistently .
 we therefore decide to provide consensus recommendation from the expert panel .
 the siog breast cancer in the elderly task force review the search finding and agree which study be relevant and sufficiently power to address the various topic discuss throughout this paper .
 a consensus be reach among all participant for the recommendation .
 contributors .
 hw and ma have the idea and hw coordinated the development of the recommendation .
 a core group of different specialist develop a first draft on the different topic ik for radiotherapy hw lb cb-m for chemotherapy and hormone treatment jf for screening and epidemiology gv for surgery .
 the manuscript be then extensively review by a second group of expert in different field ah me vg eb raa hb mb shg hm ma .
 all author approve the final recommendation and manuscript .
 conflict of interest .
 the author declare no conflict of interest .
 therefore identification of regimen-specific predictive factor be a research priority .
 several single-arm neoadjuvant chemotherapy trial have report gene-expression signature obtain from tumour biopsy take at much of this study describe signature that predict clinical or pathological response although one fail to identify any gene that predict this study have two weakness that restrict use in routine practice .
 first none attempt to predict the response of patient randomised to different regimen so the specificity of the signature for particular regimen remain unproven .
 second many study include mix population of patient with oestrogen-receptor-positive tumour and patient with oestrogen-receptor-negative tumour but oestrogen-receptor-positive tumour have a low rate of clinical and pathological response to neoadjuvant since oestrogen-receptor status be the dominant factor in gene-expression datum from breast tumour study a mix population can lead to confound of treatment-response gene with gene link to oestrogen-receptor status .
 we have previously report gene-expression signature that predict the response of cell line and tumour to a range of chemotherapeutic the aim of the present study be to confirm the ability of this signature to predict the response of oestrogen-receptor-negative breast tumour to chemotherapy in a large series of patient enrolled in a phase iii neoadjuvant trial .
 method patient selection and sample processing .
 this substudy be restrict to patient with oestrogen-receptor-negative tumour because study that contain both patient with oestrogen-receptor-positive tumour and patient with oestrogen-receptor-negative tumour be easily confound by gene link to oestrogen-receptor status additionally pathological complete response be so rare after treatment with either regimen in patient with oestrogen-receptor-positive tumour that well selection of patient will have the great effect in oestrogen-receptor-negative disease .
 pathological complete response be use as a surrogate measure of chemosensitivity because this measure consistently predict well survival after neoadjuvant we undertake this study in the context of a prospective phase iii intergroup trial of neoadjuvant chemotherapy european organisation for research and treatment of cancer eortc breast international group big the design of which be show in figure the trial compare treatment with a traditional anthracycline-based regimen with that of a taxane-containing regimen in patient with large operable tumour .
 eligible patient have no evidence of distant metastatic disease ie as define by the tumour node and metastasis tnm stage system and have a histologically confirm large operable invasive tumour tumour size t2 or t3 node status or n1 18 or locally advance breast cancer any t n2 or t4 .
 the plan primary endpoint be a difference in progression-free survival in the two group depending on tp53 status and will be report later .
 predicting response with gene signature be a plan secondary endpoint of the trial and be report here .
 this substudy be restrict to all patient who be assess at the eortc datum centre on april 1 who meet the follow criterion oestrogen-receptor-negative tumour by immunohistochemistry of the formalin-fixed biopsy completion of the plan chemotherapy regimen with no major protocol violation non-t4 tumour and good-quality and much than ng yield of rna available from a freeze biopsy .
 ethical approval for the clinical trial and associate translational project be obtain in all participate institution .
 patient give write inform consent for clinical and translational study .
 full-size image 36k high-quality image 288k figure study design of eortc big trial .
 epirubicin and cyclophosphamide .
 .
 plus docetaxel .
 surgery be follow by radiotherapy or hormonal therapy or both accord to each centre 's policy .
 view within article .
 in this substudy patient be randomly assign to a european non-taxane regimen of six cycle of mg m2 fluorouracil mg m2 epirubicin and mg m2 cyclophosphamide fec treatment or to three cycle of mg m2 docetaxel follow by three cycle of mg m2 epirubicin plus mg m2 docetaxel tet .
 at completion of chemotherapy all patient undergo breast-conserving surgery or mastectomy depending on the locoregional clinical response .
 pathological complete response be use as the outcome measure and be define as disappearance of the invasive component of the primary tumour after treatment with at much a few scatter tumour cell detect by the pathologist in the resection specimen .
 analysis of pathological complete response be do locally by the pathologist in each centre this datum be not review centrally .
 all patient have one incisional or two core biopsy freeze before start chemotherapy .
 frozen section of this biopsy be assess centrally by vb and exclude from the study if the tumour cell content be below .
 rna be extract from freeze section as previously described19 and hybridised to affymetrix x3p chip .
 statistical analysis .
 microarray datum be deposit in the gene expression omnibus database under accession number gse6861 on jan 25 .
 the affymetrix cel file be normalised with the robust multi-array average rma algorithm .
 to infer the presence of erbb2 amplicon gene from trip3 to rapgefl in the erbb2 region on chromosome 17q be cluster by use of euclidian distance and ward 's linkage method .
 conversion of gene-expression datum to probability of pathological complete response be do at duke university durham nc usa .
 the anthracycline use in the eortc clinical study be epirubicin .
 since datum on epirubicin sensitivity be not available we use the cell-line signature for doxorubicin an anthracycline very similar to epirubicin .
 weight generate by binary-regression analysis be apply to the expression value and summed to create metagene score that be convert to probability by apply a probit function webappendix webpanel and webtable 1 .
 the single-drug probability be combine to yield the predict probability of pathological complete response to fec and tet regimen as previously .
 receiver operate characteristic roc curve be use to test the quality of the prediction .
 bootstrapping with resampled dataset be use to find ci of the area under the curve auc of the roc curve .
 the statistical significance of the discrimination between pathological complete response and non-pathological complete response be assess by wilcoxon test .
 all statistical test be two-sided .
 the youden be use to select a threshold for estimation of sensitivity specificity positive predictive value ppv negative predictive value npv and overall accuracy .
 sensitivity specificity and youden index be express as fraction in the roc analysis but have be convert to percentage in the summary table .
 the association of clinical variable with pathological complete response be test with univariate and multivariate logistic regression and fisher 's exact test .
 when a category of an ordinal variable have too few observation this be pool with an adjacent consecutive category grade 1 and 2 tumour size t1 and t2 node status n1 and n2 .
 binary estimate of age and the signature cut at the median of the test population be use for fisher 's exact test age be dichotomised as a surrogate indicator of menopausal status median age be 495 year .
 continuous variable for age and signature be use in the logistic regression .
 missing value for grade be assign to a separate category to avoid a decrease in the sample size in the logistic regression analysis .
 to model the potential benefit from select the treatment regimen accord to the predict probability of pathological complete response to the individual regimen a regimen preference score be calculate by subtract the predict probability of pathological complete response to tet from the predict probability of pathological complete response to fec .
 in the simple scenario patient with a negative regimen preference score should receive tet and patient with a positive score should receive fec .
 use of zero as the threshold for allocation to one or other regimen assume that the predict probability of pathological complete response to the two regimen be perfectly match but this be unlikely because they be independently derived from cell-line datum .
 hypothetical pathological complete response rate for the entire group of 125 patient be calculate at different regimen allocation threshold by take into account the observe pathological complete response rate and the number of patient in each group at that threshold .
 this study be register on the clinical trial site of the us national cancer institute website .
 role of the funding source .
 the sponsor of the trial eortc design and coordinated the trial .
 the funding source of the study have no role in the design of the study collection analysis or interpretation of the datum or in the writing of this report .
 md pf ap sm jrn and rdi have full access to the raw datum .
 the corresponding author have full access to all of the datum and have the final responsibility to submit for publication .
 result .
 of 212 patient with oestrogen-receptor-negative tumour assess at the datum centre on april 1 87 patient be exclude because of major protocol violation two patient t4 tumour patient below tumour-cell content in incisional or core biopsy 25 patient or poor quality rna or little than ng yield of rna or both patient .
 biopsy from 66 tumour in the fec group and 59 tumour in the tet group of the eortc big study be test on affymetrix x3p microarray .
 clinical and pathological datum for this tumour be show in table 1 and webtable response predictor be construct by take gene that predict the response of cell line to fluorouracil cyclophosphamide docetaxel and epirubicin give as single drug then combine this single-drug signature to form regimen-specific genomic signature as previously figure 2 show the predict probability of pathological complete response to fec and tet calculate with the regimen-specific genomic signature in the two treatment group .
 the signature significantly predict response in patient that receive the appropriate drug .
 to assess the ability of the signature to identify responder we do a roc analysis the youden index be use to identify the threshold for calculation of the performance .
 the accuracy of prediction for the regimen-specific signature be 52 of 66 patient ci 67 87 for patient in the fec group and 47 of 59 patient 68 88 for patient in the tet group table 2 .
 furthermore the signature be specific to the two regimen table 3 and figure 3 show that the signature predict response in the correct group ie the fec signature predict response to fec treatment and the tet signature predict response to tet treatment but not in the wrong group ie fec to tet or tet to fec .
 both treatment regimen in the eortc study contain epirubicin albeit in differ schedule and total dose therefore a small amount of crossover between the predictor in the oppose group might be anticipate .
 we note a weak prediction by the tet signature in the fec group albeit the low boundary of the ci of the auc barely exceed the value for a random classifier but none with the fec signature in the tet group the ci of the auc overlap .
 the design of the study call for exposure of tumour to three cycle of full-dose docetaxel t before give combine anthracycline plus taxane et .
 domination of the pattern of response to tet by the initial taxane exposure explain why the fec predictor be not significant in the tet group .
 to further study the role of individual drug in the two group roc analysis be use to assess the performance of the single-drug predictor table 3 and webfigure .
 in each patient the signature be only significantly associate with response if the patient receive the relevant drug .
 consistent with the absence of cross-regimen prediction by the fec signature docetaxel be a much strong predictor than doxorubicin in the tet group .
 we conclude that the regimen-specific signature predict pathological complete response because they be build from individual drug signature that predict pathological complete response .
 table .
 clinical and demographic characteristic of patient .
 fec group tet group age year range26 histology invasive ductal5657 invasive lobular42 tnm stage t121 t23838 n13432 n255 grade 33238 na115 hormone receptor status pr negative6359 erbb2 status response pcr2827 no pcr3832 .
 full-size table .
 pcr pathological complete response .
 receptor .
 not ductal or lobular cancer .
 this three patient be n2 .
 pr and oestrogen receptor er be assess locally in each centre case where little than of tumour cell stain positive for pr by immunohistochemistry be deem negative .
 all case be negative for er .
 erbb2 status be assess centrally based on microarray datum .
 view within article .
 full-size image 73k high-quality image 475k figure prediction of pathological complete response with genomic signature stratified by trial group .
 complete response .
 each point be an individual patient .
 complete response .
 pathological complete response .
 receive fec .
 receive tet .
 green dash line show the mean value in each group .
 black dash line show maximum empirical youden index those in the upper-left and lower-right panel be use to calculate the performance metric in table .
 view within article .
 table .
 performance metric of genomic regimen-specific signature .
 fec grouptet group patient ci patient ci accuracy52 6679 67 87 47 68 88 sensitivity27 2896 82 99 25 2793 77 98 specificity25 3866 79 22 3269 51 82 ppv27 52 25 3571 55 84 npv25 2696 81 99 22 2492 74 98 full-size table .
 ppv predict a pathological complete response .
 classification statistic at the optimum threshold maximum empirical youden index with ci be show .
 view within article .
 table .
 area under roc curve of genomic signature single agent and regimen-specific signature by group .
 fec grouptet group auc ci pauc ci p fec tet .
 full-size table .
 auc by group approximate ci bootstrap sample and p value two-sided wilcoxon rank sum test for the null hypothesis of no difference .
 view within article .
 full-size image 72k high-quality image 447k figure roc analysis of the ability of genomic signature to discriminate patient with a pathological complete response from patient with residual disease .
 auc number of case n and location of the maximum empirical youden index green point be show .
 view within article .
 the clinical variable age at diagnosis node status and tumour size and the pathological variable histological grade and erbb2 status be test for ability to predict pathological complete response by use of fisher 's exact test table 4 and by univariate logistic regression webtable 3 .
 other than tumour size none of the clinical or pathological variable show a significant association with response .
 tumour size in patient in the tet group show a borderline significant association with response this would not be significant after bonferroni correction for the 14 comparison in table 4 or the 18 comparison in webtable 2 .
 larger tumour should be much difficult to treat and tumour size be a classic prognostic factor in breast cancer .
 the fec and tet signature be test in the same way and find to be significantly associate with response odd ratio or 865 ci 255 3484 for fec and or 1476 378 for tet both comparison would remain significant after bonferroni correction .
 as would be expect give the absence of effect of the clinical or pathological variable in univariate analysis the genomic signature remain significant in formal multivariate testing webtable 4 .
 table .
 two-sided fisher 's exact test for association of clinical variable and genomic signature with pathological complete response by group .
 fec grouptet group or ci por ci p size t3 v t1 and 233 grade 1 and 2 v 135 254 nodal status 1 and 2 v 264 187 erbb2 status a v n176 733 321 age old v younger163 495 449 fec signature865 255 3384 687 tet signature272 861 378 .
 full-size table .
 ratio .
 .
 amplify .
 erbb2 status be establish as in table .
 age be analyse as a binary variable cut at 495 year as a surrogate for menopausal status .
 signature be use as binary variable cut at the median .
 univariate and multivariate linear regression model include age and the genomic signature as continuous variable be show in webtable 3 and .
 view within article .
 a plot of the predict probability of pathological complete response to the two regimen can be divide into four quadrant figure 4 .
 the upper-right quadrant contain many patient who respond well to treatment triangle the undesirable side-effect of taxane mean this patient be candidate for conventional fec treatment .
 conversely the lower-left quadrant have many patient who fail to respond to treatment circle this patient be candidate for treatment with new drug .
 the remain quadrant contain patient with a high predict probability of pathological complete response to one regimen than to the other .
 the lower-right quadrant contain many patient who fail to respond to fec green circle but have a high predict probability of pathological complete response to tet the upper-left quadrant contain some patient who fail to respond to tet blue circle but have a high predict probability of pathological complete response to fec .
 inspection of the plot show that divide it with a diagonal line might form the basis of a rule to allocate patient to different regimen patient below the diagonal line should receive tet and patient above the line should receive fec .
 the diagonal line act as a regimen allocation threshold for select the treatment .
 at least two reason exist for ask what might happen if this threshold be alter ie the diagonal line be displace vertically first it might be desirable to decrease the number of patient receive taxane because of side-effect second the predict probability of pathological complete response to the two regimen be independently derived and unlikely to be match precisely .
 full-size image 52k high-quality image 326k figure predicted probability of pathological complete response to fec and tet treatment .
 complete response .
 each point correspond to an individual patient .
 plot show predict probability of pcr calculate from microarray datum the record value as show in figure 2 .
 the vertical and horizontal dot line be draw at the threshold use to calculate the performance metric in table the treatment allocation model assign patient to fec when point be above the diagonal line and to tet when below it .
 the point mark by an arrow be discuss in the text .
 view within article .
 we develop a treatment allocation model figure 5 to study the effect of alter the threshold .
 to do this we first calculate a regimen preference score this be simply the predict probability of pathological complete response to fec treatment minus the predict probability of pathological complete response to tet treatment .
 for the point mark by the arrow in figure 4 the regimen preference score be therefore .
 in the treatment allocation model patient be assign to fec treatment when the regimen preference score be above the threshold above the diagonal line and to tet when the regimen preference score be below the threshold below the diagonal line .
 the diagonal line in figure 4 correspond to a threshold of zero in figure 5 the patient mark by the arrow would be allocate to treatment with tet because regimen preference score be below zero .
 the ratio of green triangle to green circle above the diagonal line give the pathological complete response rate for fec treatment this number multiply by the total number of point above the line give the number of responder in the group allocate to fec treatment likewise the ratio of blue triangle to blue circle below the line give the pathological complete response rate for tet treatment this number multiply by the total number of point below the line give the number of responder in the group allocate to tet treatment this be combine to calculate the hypothetical pathological complete response rate for both group together .
 full-size image 28k high-quality image 167k figure treatment allocation model .
 complete response .
 the red line show how the hypothetical pathological complete response rate change as the proportion of patient allocate to each treatment change .
 view within article .
 moving the line downward in figure 4 be equivalent to decrease the regimen allocation threshold in figure when the threshold be lower ie the diagonal line in figure 4 be move vertically down much patient be assign to fec treatment green dash line in figure 5 whereas when it be raise much patient be assign to tet treatment blue dash line .
 for example for the point mark by an arrow regimen preference score of decrease the regimen allocation threshold to would mean that the score be now above the threshold and the patient would receive fec treatment .
 generally the low the score the much likely a patient be to receive tet treatment conversely the low the threshold the much likely a patient be to receive fec treatment .
 the red line in figure 5 show how the hypothetical pathological complete response rate change as the regimen allocation threshold vary .
 for a wide range of threshold in the central region the hypothetical pathological complete response rate red line be 65 well above the and pathological complete response rate note in the fec and tet group in the clinical trial .
 the exact choice of threshold over a broad range seem unimportant suggest that the procedure will be robust .
 the peak of the red curve be displace to the left of zero suggest that fec treatment be safely use much frequently if treatment be select by use of the signature describe here .
 we conclude that clinical application of this regimen-specific genomic signature have a useful effect on overall treatment success and decrease the number of patient expose to the side-effect of taxane .
 discussion .
 this study confirm that gene-expression signature based on cell line can be use to predict pathological complete response of breast tumour to chemotherapy .
 to knowledge this be the first study in which genomic predictor for two different treatment have be study in a large cohort of patient enrolled in a multicentre randomised phase iii clinical trial .
 long-term follow-up will be require to establish whether regimen-specific genomic signature also predict long-term survival but this be likely since much previous study have note that patient achieve a pathological complete response indeed have long survival and this remain true after multivariate the finding report here use a doxorubicin signature instead of an epirubicin signature .
 both drug be anthracycline with similar activity so we would not expect this change to have have a major effect on outcome .
 a second caveat be that the gene weight be calculate with cell-line datum obtain on a different affymetrix platform from that use in this study .
 changing platform inevitably result in a loss of performance since weight implicitly convey information about the dynamic range of individual probe .
 in particular change platform might affect the threshold at which performance be measure .
 the auc of a roc curve be a useful measure of performance after a change in platform because it do not require the use of a predetermine threshold .
 reassuringly the auc obtain in study all support the conclusion that the signature correctly predict response to the individual drug and the combination .
 nonetheless repeat the study on u133a chip and develop an epirubicin signature might improve the quality of the prediction .
 one obstacle to the widespread application of genomic signature be the technical challenge of preserve freeze biopsy in routine clinical practice .
 the affymetrix x3p chip we use be develop for analysis of paraffin-embedded material so only small modification to the protocol might be need to test paraffin-embedded material .
 alternatively pcr technique develop by gianni and colleagues4 be use to measure the expression of the gene in genomic signature .
 there be no universally accept definition of pathological complete response .
 the much stringent definition specify the complete absence of invasive disease in the breast and axilla .
 this definition be difficult to apply in the context of multicentre multigroup trial because it necessitate standardisation of local pathological assessment or centralised pathological review of all resected tissue .
 the aim of this study be to test whether chemosensitivity signature derived in cell line predict chemosensitivity in patient .
 pathological complete response define as disappearance of the invasive component of the primary tumour after treatment with at much a few scatter tumour cell detect by the pathologist in the resection specimen be proof that a large mass of tumour cell have disappear .
 give the relatively advance nature of the tumour study here this only plausibly occur if the tumour cell be sensitive to the drug .
 therefore this occurrence be an appropriate outcome measure give aim .
 killing large number of tumour cell be desirable but do not guarantee long-term survival of patient possibly because rare tumour stem cell be the crucial determinant of hence validation of the clinical relevance of the signature report here will good be do by show regimen-specific prediction of improve survival of patient in a large adjuvant study where the definition of pathological complete response be not relevant .
 at present the signature have only be show to predict sensitivity of tumour that be oestrogen-receptor negative .
 further work will be need to show whether this signature or different one would be relevant for tumour which express steroid hormone receptor .
 that again would good be do in the context of an adjuvant study because of the low pathological complete response rate to neoadjuvant treatment of oestrogen-receptor-positive tumour .
 indeed the pathological complete response rate be so low in this group in the neoadjuvant setting that a study ten time large than the one we have undertake would be need to identify confidently a signature with similar predictive power in the oestrogen-receptor-positive group .
 the treatment allocation model explore in figure 4 and figure 5 suggest that selection of the treatment regimen with genomic signature have the potential to increase the pathological complete response rate from to around .
 if this can be confirm prospectively in a phase iii trial it will herald a major change in the current paradigm of breast cancer treatment .
 an important caveat be that this will apply only to patient with oestrogen-receptor-negative tumour .
 within the oestrogen-receptor-negative group there be two major class of tumour with radically different gene-expression profile call the erbb2 and basal-like class in the stanford classification22 .
 the genomic signature predict response in both oestrogen-receptor-negative class but the small size of the erbb2 group mean we exclude the possibility that the performance of the signature differ in the two group .
 many new drug be be study in combination with neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy .
 selective enrolment of patient unlikely to benefit from the establish drug in the combination would decrease the size and increase the power of this trial .
 the npv for each regimen-specific genomic signature be over .
 this make it feasible to identify at an early stage patient who be unlikely to respond to fec or tet treatment and hence have the much to benefit from new drug .
 organising clinical trial on this basis would have important implication for the subsequent use of new drug be test because the information obtain would apply only to a narrowly define group albeit one with a poor outcome with conventional treatment .
 whether it be right to proceed in this way be a matter of legitimate debate but clearly we think it be .
 contributors .
 lm mc mth tp pr jj eb jb dc and hb participate in the recruitment of patient .
 sa and rdi participate in the tissue banking section rna extraction and microarray hybridisation .
 vb be responsible for the pathological examination of the biopsy .
 hb manage the clinical trial and select the patient for inclusion in this substudy .
 pf md ap sm and jrn participate in the statistical analysis .
 hb md dc ap jrn and rdi participate in the design of the study .
 hb md dc jb ap and rdi participate in the drafting of the report .
 all of the author see and approve the final version of the report .
 conflict of interest .
 the author declare no conflict of interest .
 acknowledgment .
 we thank the patient doctor and nurse involve in the eortc study for generous participation .
 we thank monika de vos stephane lejeune inge delmotte and anne-laure nicoulaz for expert assistance with datum management and sample processing .
 we thank viviane praz and thierry sengstag for help with bioinformatics and bernadette mermillod for critical comment on the report .
 we thank the university of lausanne dna array facility and swiss institute for bioinformatics vital-it project for infrastructure support .
 we thank the european commission sixth framework programme active p53 grant fondation widmer fondation medic oncosuisse swiss national science foundation nccr molecular oncology eortc translational research fund swedish cancer society king gustav the fifth jubilee fund swedish research council us national institute for health the american association for cancer research aacr and the v foundation for cancer research for financial support .
 however the behavioral risk factor surveillance system initiate by the center for disease control have track female cancer screening test on guam since l991 .
 this information indicate that mammography use have increase steadily with woman over year of age report the high rate within the previous two year in naval guam behavioral risk factor surveillance agana guam department of public health and social service unpublished .
 elsewhere in this issue balajadia and colleague find that of chamorro woman over the age of year on guam report mammography use within the previous two year .
 this rate be high than in other pacific islander population .
 for example only of native hawaiians and of american samoan over the age of year report receive mammogram within that time frame .
 however little be know about breast cancer screening practice among chamorro woman who live on the us mainland .
 this be an important research question because breast cancer be the lead cause of death for chamorro woman on guam between the age of and 59 and because immigration pattern to the us mainland warrant attention to this question .
 since and the signing of the guam organic act which bestow us citizenship to resident of guam there have be a continue migration of chamorro and family to the us mainland particularly to california and other western state .
 the migration have be stimulate by many factor include the depressed economy of guam and a government sponsor attrition program that offer early retirement and buy-out option to employee .
 in addition a large number of chamorro relocate to the san diego area with numerous military facility due to military relocation and base closure .
 this city have be a desirable location because of the exist chamorro population nearby military installation and proximity to international airport for return flight to guam .
 indeed san diego be home to the large group of chamorro on the mainland of the chamorro live on the mainland .
 an estimate of chamorro in san diego be associate with the military as active duty reserve retire spouse or dependent .
 pertinent to the current study the military provide excellent health insurance coverage and medical center and clinic conduct breast health seminar and monitor use of mammogram factor that encourage breast cancer screening .
 based on the relatively high rate of screening mammography and the strong affiliation with the military among chamorro research group postulate that this factor be connect .
 therefore the purpose of the present study be two fold 1 to assess knowledge attitude and breast cancer screening behavior among chamorro woman in san diego and 2 to determine whether affiliation with the military as well as knowledge attitude and behavior relate to breast cancer be associate with the use of mammogram .
 method .
 we conduct a self-administered survey among self-reported chamorro woman in san diego california to achieve the study objective .
 in preparation for the survey we conduct two focus group to determine knowledge and attitude about cancer that might be unique to chamorro woman .
 participants response be use as a supplement in develop culturally relevant question for the survey .
 the university of california irvine human subject review committee approve the protocol for the study .
 research design and sampling strategy .
 use the snowball sampling method the participant be recruit through the son and daughter of guam club sdgc as well as the fiesta group .
 the sdgc participate in the pacific islander cancer control network piccn which provide support for this pilot research project .
 inclusion criterion include be self-reported chamorro female over the age of year with no history of breast cancer .
 they be also ask whether they be associate with the military in order to recruit an even number of participant with and without military affiliation based on a priori assumption that access to breast cancer screening may differ between the two group .
 women who be interested in participate be invite to social gathering where they complete the survey .
 written inform consent be obtain prior to questionnaire administration .
 survey instrument .
 the survey instrument contain question derived from the national health interview survey nhis the nhis cancer control supplement and focus group result .
 the survey include knowledge attitude and behavior question specific to breast cancer in addition to mammography utilization and demographic information .
 each knowledge question be score on a 5 point likert-type scale where 1 strongly disagree 2 somewhat disagree 3 somewhat agree 4 strongly agree and 88 don't know .
 the attitudinal question measure important concept in cancer control such as belief about the importance of early detection and prevention of cancer and fear of the disease .
 the attitudinal question employ a 4 point likert-type scale include don't know .
 question of cancer-related knowledge and attitude be dichotomized disagree versus agree important versus not important .
 the five-level outcome variable assess much recent mammogram be dichotomized to yes or no with respect to have have a mammogram in the past 2 year .
 the don't know response be include in all bivariate analysis since in this context this response option likely reflect the true status of the respondent knowledge or attitude for those who actually have no knowledge or attitude about a give issue .
 statistical analysis .
 descriptive statistic be calculate for participant socioeconomic variable health status access to medical care and breast cancer relate knowledge attitude and screening behavior .
 an initial analysis reveal that only minor difference in this variable exist between respondent with and without military affiliation .
 therefore we combine the response for presentation in the result section point out difference when they exist .
 the bivariate association between the aforementioned variable and the use of mammography within the past two year be examine use for predictor variable that have much than two level a series of post-hoc analysis of 2 2 contingency table be conduct to examine the source s of difference for all combination of the level .
 to guard against type i error inflation we adapt bonferroni correction by set the significant level at where n be the number of post-hoc analysis .
 result for bivariate association be based upon different sample size as vary number of respondent answer different survey item .
 result .
 table 1 present the sociodemographic characteristic of chamorro female reside in san diego country .
 by design approximately half of the woman have be affiliate with the military .
 among those much have affiliation through spouse and very few be on active duty .
 the majority of respondent be born in guam .
 more than half of the woman be little than year old and have at least some college education .
 the majority be marry and not currently employ .
 over report that they have some form of health insurance .
 table .
 sociodemographic characteristic n variablen totala place of birthguam95 us mainland12 other3 age yr educationless than high school21 high school graduate42 some college household income k22 87 k k45 ever be affiliate with militaryyes56 active duty4 reserve active duty2 served in the military3 spouse serve in the military21 dependent12 did not list type of affiliation14 no54 employment statuscurrently employed48 not marital statusmarried common law61 separated widowed45 never married4 any language speak other than englishyes71 no36 in general what language do you read and chamorro well than english8 both equally43 english well than chamorro26 only english32 any form of health insuranceyes96 no14 type of health insurancegovernment sponsor program11 military champus va tricare 15 private insurance32 more than one kind38 no insurance14 full-size table .
 a the total indicate the number of respondent who answer the question for each variable .
 some percentage may not total to due to round error .
 view within article .
 the level of access to medical care be notable .
 specifically indicate that they have a regular source of medical care and report that they visit the place of usual source of care little than a year ago .
 the much common site of usual source of care be a doctor 's office .
 table .
 health status and access to medical care n variablen a health poor3 fair19 good37 very good34 excellent16 general access to medical very good27 good29 fair2 poor2 have a usual source of medical no9 type of usual source of doctor 's office66 hospital emergence room7 hospital outpatient health center3 health maintenance organization18 other5 last time visit usual source of less than one year ago93 1 2 year ago7 2 3 year ago5 more than 3 year ago3 full-size table .
 a the total indicate the number of respondent who answer the question for each variable .
 some percentage may not total to due to round error .
 view within article .
 specific to participant knowledge about cancer in general about report that if cancer be detect early the cure be likely .
 likewise the large majority would undergo painful or unpleasant treatment if it would improve chance of live long .
 of note few respondent believe that cancer be cause by taotaomonas spirit or that a suruhano traditional healer can treat cancer .
 however over one third believe that cancer be inaen yu'us god give .
 table .
 knowledge and attitude about cancer in general n variablen a if cancer be detect early how likely can it be likely93 not likely2 do not know14 i would rather not know if i have agree16 do not know4 cancer be cause by taotaomonas spirit agree5 disagree92 do not know12 getting cancer be nina'in yu'us god give agree37 disagree61 do not know9 one can get cancer because of past agree11 disagree89 do not know6 at age i do not need to worry about agree11 disagree92 do not know5 cancer be spread through the agree17 disagree79 do not know12 a suruhano traditional healer can treat agree18 disagree69 do not know21 faith in god will cure agree61 disagree36 do not know7 cancer be bring to the chamorro by disagree89 do not know11 faith in god will help me not get disagree62 do not know7 people get cancer because they neglect disagree53 do not know4 god give power to medical doctor to treat agree55 disagree44 do not know9 i would undergo painful or unpleasant treatment if it would improve chance of live disagree15 do not know3 cancer be cause by environmental agree68 do not know19 cancer be cause by agree84 disagree19 do not know7 cancer be cause by agree68 do not know12 full-size table .
 a the total indicate the number of respondent who answer the question for each variable .
 some may not total to due to round error .
 view within article .
 the majority of the chamorro woman agree that aging diet high in fat and have a blood relative with breast cancer increase a woman 's risk of get breast cancer .
 furthermore much of the woman agree that use birth control pill and be expose to medical x-ray increase a woman 's risk of get breast cancer .
 in contrast the majority of chamorro woman disagree that give birth to first child after age or start menses before age 12 be relate to increased risk of breast cancer .
 approximately one third of respondent believe that trauma to the breast increase the risk of breast cancer .
 table .
 knowledge and attitude about breast cancer risk factor n variablen a getting old increase risk of get breast agree55 disagree36 do not know13 diet high in fat increase risk of get breast do not know17 giving birth to the first child after age increase risk of get breast agree26 disagree56 do not know22 having a blood relative with breast cancer increase risk of get breast agree74 disagree25 do not know9 use birth control pill increase risk of get breast disagree36 do not know31 being expose to medical x-ray increase risk of get breast disagree35 do not know21 starting menstruation before age 12 increase risk of get breast agree15 disagree54 do not know34 trauma to breast increase risk of get breast agree37 disagree37 do not know32 active excessive sexual stimulation of agree16 disagree63 do not know27 full-size table .
 a the total indicate the number of respondent who answer the question for each variable .
 some percentage may not total to due to round error .
 b accepted as a risk factor by the biomedical community .
 c not accept as a risk factor by the biomedical community .
 view within article .
 table 5 present the result regard breast cancer screening knowledge and behavior .
 the prevalence rate for mammogram use ever have a mammogram be and the rate for have the much recent mammogram within the past two year be .
 of those year and old n 76 report have have the much recent mammogram within the past two year .
 the large majority believe that a mammogram detect breast cancer in early stage and that a mammogram be very accurate or somewhat accurate in find a lump .
 table .
 knowledge and behavior regard breast cancer screening n variablen a ever hear of no2 ever have no8 much recent within the last 12 months61 1 2 year ago21 2 5 year ago13 5 or much year ago5 never8 who make the decision of have mammogram98 on own36 doctor 's order28 both me and doctor34 how frequently should a woman without symptom have every 6 months6 every year68 every 2 3 every 3 year or more6 do not know8 the age doctor recommend a woman should start have 31 41 when she start have periods4 after give birth1 do not a mammogram can detect breast cancer in early agree95 disagree7 how accurate be a mammogram in find breast very accurate43 somewhat accurate52 not accurate3 do not know8 full-size table .
 a the total indicate the number of respondent who answer the question for each variable .
 some percentage may not total to due to round error .
 view within article .
 in the bivariate analysis the difference between the rate of mammography use among woman with and without affiliation with the military be not statistically significant versus p .
 on the other hand woman who have military insurance be much likely than other to have a mammography within that time frame p .
 none of the other sociodemographic characteristic be associate with mammogram use .
 likewise knowledge about risk factor for breast cancer be not correlated with the outcome variable .
 however several other important factor be show to correlate with mammography utilization .
 general access to medical care be significantly relate to the likelihood of have have a mammogram within the past two year p .
 post-hoc analysis show that chamorro woman who rate general access to medical care as good or very good excellent be significantly much likely to have have a mammogram than be those who report access to medical care as poor fair p and p respectively .
 furthermore the use of mammogram differ between chamorro woman who indicate that they visit regular source of care little then one year ago 1 2 year ago 2 3 year ago or much than 3 year ago p .
 post-hoc analysis show that those who visit the source of care within the past year be much likely to have have a mammogram than be those who visit the source 2 3 year ago or much than 3 year ago p and p respectively .
 in addition woman doctor or nurse recommend a mammogram be significantly much likely to have have a mammogram within the past two year than be those doctor or nurse do not recommend it p .
 participants perception of the likelihood that cancer can be cure if detect early be also relate to mammogram use .
 post-hoc analysis show that woman who report that cancer be likely to be cure if detect early be much likely to have have a mammogram within the past two year than be those who report that cancer be unlikely to be cure if detect early p .
 finally participant perception of the frequency that a woman should get a screening mammogram be relate to the mammogram use p .
 specifically compare to woman who report that they do not know how frequently they should have a screening mammogram those who report that they should have one annually be much likely to have have the test p .
 discussion .
 compared with other pacific islander and certain asian population the screening rate within this self-selected san diego cohort of chamorro exceed those of other .
 approximately of the chamorro woman age and old report have receive a mammogram within the precede two year .
 this figure be high than the list as one of the health objective by the healthy people .
 however additional study and intervention to promote the utilization of mammogram be necessary to meet the recommendation by the nci that every woman age and old should receive a mammogram at least every 1 2 year .
 we do not determine why chamorro in this study have well rate of mammography use than other pacific islander population .
 however the participant have relatively high socioeconomic status with have at least some college education and have a household income of at least .
 moreover report some form of health insurance and perceive at least good access to medical care .
 this finding be consistent with previous study and may in part explain the relatively large proportion of chamorro woman who be up to date on breast cancer screening .
 a number of factor be associate with mammography use within study population .
 there be a statistically insignificant trend toward increase mammography use by those affiliate with the military .
 however have military insurance at the time of the interview be significantly associate with mammography use .
 the difference in the utilization of mammography between those who have and those who have no military insurance not be due to the mammogram coverage because both military insurance and non-military insurance cover mammography use .
 one possible explanation be that military health provider may be much proactive in solicit insure individual to have mammogram mailing brochure about the benefit of mammogram .
 future targeted research should empirically investigate this possibility .
 not surprisingly those doctor or nurse recommend mammogram be much likely to have have a mammogram than be those doctor or nurse do not recommend it .
 furthermore chamorro woman who possess knowledge of how often a woman should get a mammogram be much likely to have have one as compare to those who do not have any knowledge of the frequency .
 on the other hand none of the sociodemographic characteristic be associate with mammogram use .
 taken together this result suggest that although socioeconomic status may increase chamorro woman 's access to mammography service it may not be sufficient to ensure the actual use of mammogram .
 furthermore knowledge about the risk factor of breast cancer be not relate to the likelihood of get a mammogram .
 this may suggest that while possess knowledge about the risk factor may modify individual health behavior that be much directly link to the chance of get breast cancer this knowledge may not affect one 's utilization of mammography .
 for example know that diet in high fat increase the risk of breast cancer may motivate individual to change eat behavior consume food that be low in fat .
 tanjasiri and sablan-santos conduct the only other study to date of chamorro woman on the us mainland to examine breast cancer risk knowledge and screening behavior .
 that study conduct in lo angeles and orange country found that of the 227 chamorro woman survey report a screening mammogram within the past year and of woman over age year report have mammography within the past two year .
 of note over of the woman have some form of health insurance slightly high than the rate in study .
 in a bivariate analysis have health insurance old age great income be marry and use of traditional healer be associate with high screening rate in tanjasiri and sablan-santos study .
 there be several limitation to the present study .
 first result obtain from this self-selected sample be generalized to other chamorro woman although trend in the datum may well represent the san diego chamorro perspective .
 second bias inherent in the cross-sectional self-report design be subject to report error .
 future longitudinal study should examine the trend in mammogram utilization and explore predictor of compliance and noncompliance in this underrepresented population .
 in conclusion while there remain room for improvement chamorro woman in san diego have relatively high rate of breast cancer screening with mammography .
 this find may be due in part to relatively high rate of health insurance coverage particularly military insurance and good access to medical care among chamorro compare with other pacific islander population .
 based upon result educational effort should be targeted toward assure that all woman know that breast cancer can be cure if detect early and that screening mammogram be recommend for woman year of age and old .
 the pacific islander cancer control network have begin to address this issue through publication of culturally appropriate breast cancer educational brochure and by focusing on breast health through chamorro community based organization health fair and other venue .
 conflict of interest .
 there be no conflict of interest .
 acknowledgement .
 source of support supported by grant from the national cancer institute and .
 the content of the manuscript be solely the responsibility of the author and do not necessarily represent the view of the funding agency .
 there be several important peripheral marker of inflammation in breast cancer each provide unique insight into inflammatory process include vegf sicam-1 il-6 tnf- il-1 crp vwf and sp-selectin .
 vegf be an angiogenic which stimulate the formation of new blood vessel necessary for tumor growth and metastasis .
 circulating level of vegf be elevate in breast cancer and be an independent predictor of poor survival nishimura et and wu et .
 expression of the adhesion molecule icam-1 which aid in host immune surveillance of tumor cell ogawa et 1998 and shirai et have be implicate in tumor progression and metastases with great expression be associate with low growth potential negative lymph node involvement and good prognosis o'hanlon et and vasse et .
 in contrast the soluble form of icam-1 sicam-1 be elevate in breast cancer klein et 1995 merendino et and o'hanlon et and be predictive of poor response to chemotherapy and poor prognosis o'hanlon et and zhang and adachi 1999 .
 sicam-1 reflect generalized inflammation and exert immunomodulatory effect such as suppression of natural killer cell and t-cell function and inhibition of leukocyte binding to target cell include formation of natural killer cell tumor cell conjugate cho et and kaihara et 1998 .
 several component of the acute-phase reaction be also elevate in breast cancer include the inflammatory cytokine il-6 tnf- and il-1 and crp blann et o'hanlon et and tsavaris et .
 il-6 have tumor-inhibiting and tumor-promoting effect in breast cancer .
 high serum level of il-6 in breast cancer be independent predictor of poor survival .
 tnf- be an independent predictor of progression free survival in metastatic breast cancer patient who receive chemotherapy .
 il-1 and il-1 be secrete by macrophage and monocyte stimulate breast cancer proliferation and along with il-1ra be find in breast cancer tissue nicolini et and singer et .
 elevated serum level of il-1 correlate with breast cancer recurrence .
 il-1ra level be high in old breast cancer patient cancer lack estrogen receptor .
 the acute-phase reactant crp be produce by the liver in response to inflammation .
 elevated crp level be predictive of poor survival in metastatic breast cancer .
 in addition elevate crp level correlate with sicam-1 provide evidence that elevate sicam-1 level reflect the acute phase response and generalized inflammation .
 von willebrand factor vwf which be find in the weibel palade body of secretory organelles of endothelial cell and platelet and play a key role in hemostasis be elevate in breast cancer blann et and blann et .
 elevated vwf level do not appear to reflect platelet activation but rather endothelial activation and or damage blann et and blann et .
 soluble p-selectin sp-selectin on the other hand do reflect platelet activation in breast cancer blann et and fox et 1995 .
 platelet p-selectin expression support the formation of blood platelettumor cell complex in the circulation and facilitate metastases .
 chemotherapy for breast cancer can lead to further increase in this inflammatory mediator or in some case decrease .
 three cycle of standard anthracycline-based chemotherapy in stage i iii-b patient lead to an increase in circulate level of sicam-1 and vegf .
 chemotherapy with the taxane paclitaxel and docetaxel increase il-6 level but decrease il-1 and tnf- level with much pronounce effect with docetaxel .
 three course of neoadjuvant chemotherapy for non-inflammatory stage iii-b breast cancer lead to a decrease in tnf- level an effect which be great in patient with complete versus partial response .
 single agent paclitaxel therapy but not fluorouracil plus doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide chemotherapy increase il-6 level .
 although there be several marker of disease that be associate with inflammation in breast cancer few study have prospectively examine disease and treatment factor that might be relate to change in inflammation in response to chemotherapy for breast cancer .
 examine circulate level of vegf vegf-a and vegf-d a lymphangiogenic growth factor prior to and follow adjuvant chemotherapy in patient with positive node breast cancer .
 there be a significant reduction in vegf level but only in patient who have large tumor and in patient with a positive hormone receptor status .
 the primary aim of this study be to examine the effect of chemotherapy for breast cancer on measure of inflammation and to test for potential predictor of inflammation in response to chemotherapy .
 measure of inflammation include a panel of eight circulate marker know to have clinical relevance in breast cancer .
 we hypothesized that four of themsicam-1 vegf sp-selecting and vwfwould be increase in response to chemotherapy .
 for potential predictor of inflammation we test a panel of demographic breast cancer and treatment regimen characteristic .
 method .
 women with breast cancer be recruit from the ucsd moore cancer center and from oncologist in the san diego area .
 those diagnose with stage i through iii-a breast cancer and referred for adjuvant anthracycline-based chemotherapy be invite to participate .
 exclusion criterion include pregnancy woman undergo bone marrow transplant metastatic breast cancer confound underlie medical illness include renal failure significant pre-existing anemia and other physical or psychological impairment which would limit participation .
 the study be approve by the ucsd human research protection program and the ucsd cancer center human research protection program of participating oncologist .
 breast cancer disease stage be perform by the referring medical oncologist typically utilize the american joint committee on cancer staging manual 5th edition .
 patient receive adjuvant anthracycline-based chemotherapy after clinical staging and definitive surgical treatment with either lumpectomy or mastectomy and axillary staging with sentinel node biopsy or axillary lymph node dissection accord to institutional standard .
 the individual anthracycline regimen in this study include standard clinical dose of adriamycin and cyclophosphamide alone adriamycin and cyclophosphamide with taxane and epirubicin cytoxan 5fluorouracil chemotherapy .
 the 35 woman who complete this study be obtain from a large pool of 128 woman who initially request information about a study on the effect of chemotherapy for breast cancer on disturb sleep and fatigue .
 of this 19 be not interested in participate 17 be not eligible to participate and 6 drop out before study completion .
 of the remain 86 participant 35 complete this sub-study design to examine the effect of chemotherapy on inflammation .
 each participant be study prior to and follow three 3 week cycle of adjuvant anthracycline-based chemotherapy .
 nine of the woman be treat with hormone prior to chemotherapy .
 none of the woman have radiation therapy before the chemotherapy .
 blood sampling and assay .
 blood sample be collect at the breast cancer clinic between the hour of be and pm immediately prior to the administration of cycle 1 pre-c1 of chemotherapy and immediately prior to the start of cycle 4 of chemotherapy pre-c4 .
 whole blood be preserve with either edta sicam-1 vegf sp-selectin tnf- il-1-ra il-6 and crp or sodium citrate vwf .
 following centrifugation plasma or serum be store at c until sicam-1 vegf sp-selectin tnf- il1-ra and il-6 be determine in duplicate by commercial elisa with internal control rd system mpls mn mills et and von kanel et .
 the precision of the assay be as follow intra-assay cv for sicam-1 vegf sp-selectin tnf- il1-ra il-6 be and respectively inter-assay cv be and respectively .
 sensitivity value be ng ml pg ml ng ml pg ml pg ml and pg ml vwf be determine in duplicate by commercial elisa with internal control diagnostica stago parsippany new jersey .
 the intra-assay cv for vwf be the inter-assay cv be and the sensitivity be .
 crp level be determine in duplicate by the high sensitivity denka seiken assay with internal control .
 the intra-assay cv for crp be the inter-assay cv be and the sensitivity be mg l .
 both sample pre-c1 and pre-c4 from a give patient be assay together .
 data analysis .
 prior to chemotherapy simple correlation analysis and one-way anova be run examine relationship among each inflammatory marker at pre-c1 and the demographic age and bmi and breast cancer disease characteristic include cancer type infiltrate lobular carcinoma infiltrate ductal carcinoma or infiltrate mix carcinoma estrogen receptor expression progesterone receptor expression human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 her-2 expression tumor size and presence or absence of positive node .
 for the primary aim of the study in order to test whether there be a significant pre to post chemotherapy change in the overall inflammatory marker panel while adjust for multiple comparison we run a manova that include all eight inflammatory marker as dependent variable .
 this analysis take into account correlation among the different marker .
 the manova be significant and hence follow fisher 's least significant difference paradigm we conduct separate one-way repeat measure analysis of variance for each marker .
 this individual analysis serve to tease out the potential chemotherapy treatment effect for each inflammatory marker .
 multiple linear regression analysis be then run to determine the extent to which variable independently predict the level of each inflammatory marker at pre-c4 .
 potential predictor variable be enter into the regression model in separate block .
 age and bmi be force enter into the first block .
 the level of the respective inflammatory marker prior to chemotherapy be force enter into the second block .
 factor relate to breast cancer diagnosis as describe above be enter into the third block disease stage be not enter as a separate potential predictor variable because factor that determine stage tumor size and lymph node status be enter into the model .
 treatment information include chemotherapy regimen adriamycin and cyclophosphamide alone adriamycin and cyclophosphamide with taxane and epirubicin cytoxan 5fluorouracil chemotherapy be enter into the fourth block .
 among the 7 patient in the adriamycin and cyclophosphamide with taxane group 1 patient have receive taxol and 6 receive taxotere .
 among the 17 patient in the mastectomy group 2 receive a double mastectomy and 15 a mastectomy .
 data be analyzed use the spss for windows spss chicago il and present as mean sd .
 the level of statistical significance be set at p two-tailed .
 borderline significance p be also present to show trend that may help to well illustrate overall relationship .
 result .
 table 1 present the individual patient characteristic of age bmi ethnicity breast cancer stage cancer type tumor size presence of positive node estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor expression her-2 expression chemotherapy regimen and type of surgery .
 the mean age of the sample be year sd .
 compared to patient who complete the large study on chemotherapy and disturb sleep and fatigue the patient who complete this sub-study on inflammatory marker do not significantly differ on any of the characteristic that appear in table .
 table .
 patient disease and treatment characteristic .
 n35 .
 age year sd range 34 79 ethnicity26caucasian 1native american 2african-american 3hispanic 3asian .
 stage11stage i 9stage ii 1stage iii 4stage iii-a .
 type of cancer3infiltrating lobular carcinoma ductal carcinoma 2infiltrating mix carcinoma .
 mean tumor size cm positive nodes19no 16yes .
 estrogen14no receptor expression21yes .
 progesterone17no receptor expression18yes .
 her-2 expression27no 8yes .
 chemotherapy regimen19adriamycin and cyclophosphamide alone 7adriamycin and cyclophosphamide with taxanes 9epirubicin and cytoxan with 5fluorouracil .
 surgery18lumpectomy 17mastectomy .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 inflammatory marker pre-chemotherapy .
 circulating level of each inflammatory marker at pre-c1 be present in table prior to chemotherapy il-6 level be high in individual with negative versus positive estrogen receptor expression pg ml sd versus pg ml sd respectively f p and in individual with negative versus positive progesterone receptor expression pg ml sd versus pg ml sd respectively f p .
 the only significant correlation pre-c1 be between crp level and bmi r p .
 table .
 level of inflammatory marker prior to and during chemotherapy .
 mean sd pre-cycle 1pre-cycle 4f p value crp mg l tnf- pg ml il1-ra pg ml 1337 1465 1357 1181 vegf pg ml sicam-1 ng ml il-6 pg ml sp-selectin ng ml vwf .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 inflammatory marker during chemotherapy .
 the manova be significant at f p .
 individual repeat measure anova show that chemotherapy lead to significant elevation in circulate level of vegf p sicam-1 p sp-selectin p and vwf p .
 crp tnf- il1-ra and il-6 level do not significantly change in response to chemotherapy .
 the result of the multiple regression analysis be present in table level of inflammatory marker at pre-c4 be predict by the pre-c1 level in all case except sp-selectin and il1-ra .
 crp level at the start of cycle 4 be predict by high pre-chemotherapy level of crp model r2 f p .
 similarly level of tnf- at the start of cycle 4 be predict by high pre-chemotherapy level of tnf- model r2 f p .
 table .
 multiple regression predictor of inflammation in response to chemotherapy .
 inflammatory markerindividual predictor variable coefficient p value model r2 adjust r2 p value crppre-chemotherapy crp tnf-pre-chemotherapy tnf- il1-rapre-chemotherapy il1-ra status vegfpre-chemotherapy vegf tumor size sicam-1pre-chemotherapy sicam-1 il-6pre-chemotherapy il-6 tumor size sp-selectinpre-chemotherapy sp-selectin tumor size chemotherapy vwfpre-chemotherapy vwf .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 level of vegf at the start of cycle 4 be predict by high pre-chemotherapy level of vegf as well as small tumor size model r2 f p .
 cycle 4 sicam-1 level be predict by sicam-1 level at cycle 1 model r2 f p .
 il-6 level at cycle 4 be predict by high pre-chemotherapy il-6 level as well as large tumor size model r2 f p .
 level of cycle 4 sp-selectin be predict by small tumor size and type of chemotherapy treatment model r2 f p .
 post hoc analysis of the chemotherapy treatment effect show that cycle 4 sp-selectin level be high p in individual who receive epirubicin and cytoxan with 5fluorouracil 154 ng ml sd 56 versus adriamycin and cyclophosphamide alone 115 ng ml sd 44 and adriamycin and cyclophosphamide with taxane 99 ng ml sd .
 full-size image 27k in a multiple regression analysis level of pre-cycle 4 sp-selectin be predict by type of chemotherapy regimen such that level be high in patient who receive epirubicin and cytoxan with 5fluorouracil ecf versus adriamycin and cyclophosphamide alone ac and adriamycin and cyclophosphamide with taxane act p .
 view within article .
 circulating level of vwf at cycle 4 be predict by high pre-chemotherapy level of vwf model r2 f p .
 the regression model for cycle 4 il1-ra be not statistically significant model r2 f p .
 discussion .
 among the eight inflammatory marker examine four be find to be elevate in response to chemotherapy .
 consistent with prior study level of vegf sicam-1 sp-selectin and vwf be significantly high in circulation follow three cycle of chemotherapy .
 study suggest that the elevate level of sicam-1 in breast cancer reflect the acute phase response while elevate vwf level reflect endothelial activation and damage respectively .
 sp-selectin 's elevation be believe to reflect platelet but not endothelial activation .
 it be not clear whether elevation of sicam-1 sp-selectin and vwf observe follow chemotherapy reflect the same endothelial and platelet source as see in breast cancer prior to treatment .
 finding of elevate marker of endothelial and platelet activation may provide an explanation for observation of increase risk for thrombosis in patient undergo chemotherapy yeh et and youssef and link .
 it be not yet clear how long after chemotherapy this elevate level might persist .
 caine et report that compare to pre-treatment radiotherapy and or chemotherapy for breast cancer lead to a significant reduction in circulate vegf il6 and sp-selectin level at 3 month and at 12 month follow treatment .
 in the current study vegf and sp-selectin level but not il-6 level be elevate during chemotherapy .
 unfortunately we do not have long term follow-up datum on patient to address the duration of this elevation .
 we find no significant difference in pre- versus post-chemotherapy level of tnf- il1-ra il-6 or crp .
 this finding be not wholly consistent with prior report .
 previous study find that tnf- increase and il-6 decrease in advance breast cancer patient in response to chemotherapy although this effect be observe follow a long treatment regimen of 6 full cycle of chemotherapy with taxane .
 it be that for some inflammatory factor long duration of treatment be need to induce activation .
 report that stage i iii breast cancer patient with adjuvant or neoadjuvant every 3 week paclitaxel chemotherapy lead to significant increase in circulate level of il-6 but not tnf- .
 in contrast 5fluoruracil adriamycin and cyclophosphamide chemotherapy at 21 day interval for six full cycle in 23 stage i iii breast cancer patient have no significant effect on serum level of il-6 or tnf- .
 a primary aim of this study be to identify factor that might be relate to level of inflammatory marker follow chemotherapy .
 six of eight marker examine post-chemotherapy in this study be significantly relate to respective level prior to the start of chemotherapy imply that degree of inflammation present in a patient follow chemotherapy be in part determine by the degree of inflammation that exist before begin chemotherapy .
 this hold true for marker that do vegf sicam-1 vwf and do not tnf- il-6 crp change significantly in response to chemotherapy .
 in addition among the several demographic and disease relate variable that we examine estrogen receptor status tumor size and chemotherapy regimen be also relate to one or much inflammatory marker follow chemotherapy .
 berberoglu report that neoadjuvant chemotherapy in non-inflammatory stage iii-b breast cancer lead to a reduction of circulate tnf- level that be great in patient with partial and complete response suggest that degree of clinical response be relate to post-chemotherapy tnf- level .
 consistent with finding circulate level of inflammatory marker have be find to be relate to the expression of estrogen and or progesterone receptor on tumor cell .
 report in old breast cancer patient significantly high concentration of the proinflammatory il-8 in those tumor lack progesterone receptor and high il-1ra concentration in those lack estrogen receptor .
 prior to chemotherapy we find that il-6 level be high in patient with negative estrogen and progesterone receptor express tumor .
 consistent with fuksiewicz et 's observation follow chemotherapy we find that il1-ra level be marginally high in patient with negative estrogen receptor express tumor .
 we also find that tumor size be positively relate to post-chemotherapy il-6 level but negatively relate to post-chemotherapy vegf and sp-selectin level .
 there be report of a positive not negative association between tumor size and plasma vegf level in breast cancer nishimura et and wu et .
 il-6 expression be not typically associate with tumor size but with estrogen and progesterone receptor expression as be observe in this study prior to chemotherapy .
 this particular aspect of finding suggest that endothelial versus immune cell response to chemotherapy be differentially relate to initial severity of disease .
 an effect be also observe for chemotherapy regimen such that post-chemotherapy sp-selectin level be high in woman who have receive epirubicin cytoxan 5fluorouracil treatment .
 we be not aware of any literature suggest that epirubicin cytoxan 5fluorouracil treatment differentially activate platelet compare to adriamycin cottu et and ottosson et 1999 .
 there be several potential limitation of this study .
 breast cancer patient be non-metastatic and finding might not generalize to much severe disease .
 as the minimum number of cycle of chemotherapy at the time of study be four 3 week cycle study be limited to woman who be receive this regimen .
 result therefore may not be generalizable to woman in 2 week cycle or those get much than four cycle of treatment .
 in addition we obtain a single blood sample at each study timepoint which be not ideal for factor such as il-6 which display diurnal variability kanabrocki et 1999 and muc-wierzgon et 1996 .
 we attempt to address this limitation by sampling blood within a fix time each testing day but in the context of the clinic set we only limit blood sampling time to within a range of approximately 4 h .
 it be possible therefore that biomarker level be not fully representative of endogenous level .
 finally study be restrict to examine marker of endothelial and platelet activation .
 markers of t and b cell activation and or destruction merit study in the context of examine the inflammatory effect of chemotherapy for breast cancer .
 in summary the result of this study indicate that three cycle of anthracycline-based chemotherapy for breast cancer lead to elevation in inflammatory marker associate with endothelial and platelet activation .
 circulating level of inflammatory marker during chemotherapy be much significantly relate to level that exist prior to chemotherapy but also potentially to disease characteristic of estrogen receptor status and tumor size and also to type of chemotherapy treatment .
 acknowledgment .
 thank to sherella johnson for coordinating the study and for help with datum collection .
 much antineoplastic drug demonstrate cardiac toxicity can be group as i drug produce decrease in myocardial contractility or relaxation cardiomyopathy ii drug cause or exacerbate ischemia iii drug affect the cardiac conduction system .
 anthracycline such as doxorubicin and epirubicin have be implicate as causative agent of chemotherapy induce cardiomyopathy .
 the incorporation of anthracycline in combination regimen have increase the response rate remission duration and survival of patient with advance breast cancer but clinical value have be limited in some patient due to late onset ventricular dysfunction and subsequent congestive heart failure chf .
 although the majority of patient with impair cardiac function due to anthracycline develop clinically overt chf within the first year after discontinuation of chemotherapy in some patient this may take many year .
 among the two much commonly use anthracycline epirubicin be consider to be little cardiotoxic than doxorubicin .
 the exact mechanism of epirubicin-induced cardiac damage be still unclear .
 recent study have show that the combination of epirubicin and paclitaxel be a highly effective regimen which improve the prognosis of patient with metastatic breast cancer .
 although paclitaxel 's cardiac effect be rare limited mainly to disturbance of cardiac rhythm and conduction several study have demonstrate that the combination of this two antineoplastic drug increase the risk of cardiac toxicity especially when administration of epirubicin exceed cumulative dose of mg m2 .
 atrial natriuretic peptide anp and b-type natriuretic peptide bnp be secrete by the atria and ventricle respectively in response to wall stress .
 main biological action be a natriuresis b diuresis c arterial vasodilation d suppression of sympathetic activity and raas renin angiotensin aldosterone system and e inhibition of endothelin release .
 they also demonstrate antimitogenetic and lusitropic effect .
 proanp 1 98 and nt n-terminal probnp have be show to be sensitive marker in predict early cardiac dysfunction and plasma level be significantly elevate in patient with heart failure .
 the early detection of cardiac dysfunction in patient receive cardiotoxic chemotherapy i of major clinical importance .
 evaluation of leave ventricular ejection fraction lvef by mean of radionucleotide ventriculography muga scan have be demonstrate to be a reliable index of leave ventricular function and electrocardiograph ecg along with clinical examination remain so far the routine procedure for testing and monitoring cardiac function .
 the present study be undertake in order to evaluate the cardiotoxicity of anthracycline in combination with taxane in breast cancer patient and to elucidate the possible role of proanp and n-terminal probnp in the early diagnosis of clinical heart failure .
 the administer treatment include either a high risk cardiotoxic regimen contain epirubicin and paclitaxel or a low risk cardiotoxic regimen consist of mitoxantrone and docetaxel .
 lvef ecg as well as proanp 1 98 and nt-probnp plasma level be assess in all patient in order to evaluate cardiac function prospectively .
 material and .
 study population .
 between august and december forty consecutive female patient with histologically confirm breast cancer be enrolled in the study .
 all patient provide an inform consent .
 the study be approve by the scientific ethical committee of metaxa anticancer hospital where patient be diagnose and manage .
 the investigation conform to the principle outline in the declaration of helsinki .
 study eligibility criterion include i ecog eastern cooperative oncology group performance status 1 and 2 ii lvef value above determine by muga scan iii normal renal serum creatinine mg dl and normal or slightly abnormal hepatic function aspartate aminotransferase iu l or alanine aminotransferase iu l iv absence of any underlie cardiac disease such as coronary artery disease arrhythmias valvular disease severe hypertension and congestive heart failure and v no history of any other malignant disease .
 patient who have receive any chemotherapeutic and or hormonal agent or local radiotherapy 6 month prior and during the study period be exclude .
 all patient have undergo either total or partial mastectomy with axillary lymphadenectomy .
 liver lung brain and lymph node metastases be diagnose by computed tomography scan .
 bone metastases be diagnose by x-ray and bone scintigraphy .
 staging be determine accord to the tnm tumor node metastasis classification .
 detection of er estrogen receptor pgr progesterone receptor and her-2 gene encode the human epidermal growth factor receptor her2 be do by immunohistochemistry .
 cancer patient be divide into two nonrandomized group accord to the administer treatment .
 group a include patient treat with a high risk cardiotoxic regimen contain epirubicin and paclitaxel and group b patient treat with a low risk cardiotoxic regimen contain mitoxantrone and docetaxel .
 for comparison two much group be use as control group c contain female patient with diagnose heart failure and group d which include healthy woman .
 both control group be match for age .
 natriuretic peptide .
 in order to determine proanp 1 98 and nt-probnp level in group a and b venous blood be draw into sterile ml edta contain tube before the onset and right after the end of chemotherapy .
 concerning control group c and d only one sample of venous blood be take .
 sample be centrifuged at rpm for 15 min serum be separate and store at c until the day of measurement .
 proanp 1 98 and nt-probnp level be measure in fmol ml by use an enzyme immunoassay biomedica austria .
 radionucleotide ventriculography .
 lvef be determine by radionucleotide ventriculography by injection of tc99-labeled autologous rbc 's .
 lvef value low than be consider abnormal .
 an lvef decline from baseline level great than be consider to indicate significant cardiac toxicity .
 lvef be determine in group a and b patient before the onset and within one week after the end of chemotherapy .
 control group c patient have lvef value to and control group d have normal lvef value high than .
 cardiac evaluation and ecg .
 a standard 12 lead ecg be record every three chemotherapy cycle in all patient .
 the qt time be correct for heart rate qtc with bazett 's formula qtc qt vrr .
 a qtc time much than m be consider prolong .
 physical examination be perform for all cancer patient before each chemotherapy cycle and every three month after the end of treatment .
 statistical analysis .
 result be express as mean standard deviation for normally distribute continuous variable as median interquartile range for skewed variable and as frequency for categorical variable .
 continuous variable be test for normal distribution use the kolmogorov smirnov test .
 correlation be assess by spearman 's test .
 difference before and after treatment be assess by wilcoxon signed-rank test .
 comparison between group be study with student 's t test for normally distribute variable otherwise kruskal wallis test be apply .
 categorical datum be compare by x2-test or fisher exact test where appropriate .
 a probability value 2 tail be consider significant .
 all analysis be perform with the statistical software package stata version stata .
 result .
 a total of forty cancer patient and thirty three 33 control match for sex and age be enrolled in the trial .
 patient 's characteristic be list in table the mean age of study population be 53 year sd 12 .
 no difference be demonstrate regard age between group a and b p .
 the median follow-up period for all patient be month range 44 56 .
 table .
 patient characteristic .
 group agroup b total number2614 age in year mean sd 54 53 11 estrogen receptor status progesterone receptor status her-2 status .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 group a n 26 consist of patient with advance or metastatic breast cancer stage iiia iiib and iv .
 they be treat with six cycle of epirubicin mg m2 give as bolus intravenous infusion and paclitaxel mg m2 give as an intravenous 3 hourly infusion on day one .
 the cycle be repeat every three week .
 none of the group a patient have previously receive any chemotherapeutic regimen contain anthracycline .
 two 2 patient have be treat with left-sided chest wall irradiation and three 3 with right-sided chest wall irradiation at least six month prior to enrollment in the study .
 metastatic site before treatment in group a patient be liver n 7 lung n 4 bone n 2 and lymph node n 1 .
 group b n 14 consist of patient with no residual disease after surgical treatment stage iia iib iiia .
 they receive six cycle of chemotherapy consist of mitoxantrone mg m2 intravenously as an 1 hour infusion and docetaxel 75 85 mg m2 intravenously as an 1 hour infusion as well on day one .
 the cycle be repeat every three week .
 none of group b patient have any metastases before the onset of treatment .
 group c n 13 consist of female patient with new york heart association nyha classification ii iv heart failure .
 the mean age of group c be year sd 11 .
 group d n consist of healthy woman with mean age year sd 16 .
 proanp 1 98 and nt-probnp analysis .
 in group a plasma level of proanp increase from fmol ml range 147 243 to fmol ml range 215 383 p whereas nt-probnp increase from range 121 189 to 242 fmol ml range 191 335 p .
 on the contrary in group b value of natriuretic peptide before and after treatment be not significantly different p for proanp and p for nt-probnp .
 table .
 natriuretic peptide in patient and control group .
 group agroup bgroup cgroup d beforeafterbeforeafter anp range147 243215 383135 211116 3663116 211 bnp range121 189191 33535 25736 257171 42694 184 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 among group a and b no difference be record at the initial proanp and nt-probnp level but after the completion of chemotherapy proanp and nt-probnp level be significantly increase in patient of group a p and p respectively .
 between group b and c proanp and nt-probnp level be different before p and p respectively and after treatment p and p respectively .
 between group a and c proanp and nt-probnp level be different before treatment p and p respectively but after chemotherapy difference be limited only to proanp p .
 level of nt-probnp after the end of chemotherapy be not significantly different between patient of group a and control group of heart failure p .
 full-size image 9k comparison of proanp value after treatment between group a 1 and b 2 .
 view within article .
 full-size image comparison of nt-probnp value after treatment between group a 1 and b 2 .
 view within article .
 no statistically significant difference be demonstrate regard the level of natriuretic peptide before treatment between cancer patient and healthy control group d but after the completion of therapy proanp and nt-probnp be significantly elevate in group a compare with group d p and p respectively .
 none of the factor that be study grade er pgr her-2 metastases age be find to be significantly relate to proanp and nt-probnp .
 lvef analysis .
 a statistically significant decrease in lvef be observe after treatment with high risk cardiotoxic regimen p 3 .
 regarding low risk cardiotoxic regimen no difference be demonstrate concern lvef change before and after treatment p .
 full-size image 16k comparison of lvef before and after treatment in group .
 view within article .
 in group a three patient have a significant lvef decline between and from baseline value 65 to to and to respectively while two much and one common with the above three reach an lvef value below 65 to to and to respectively .
 all of the above five patient present an increase in proanp and nt-probnp value mean increase 124 fmol ml and fmol ml respectively .
 there be a significant correlation between the increase in plasma proanp and the decrease in lvef r p and between the increase in nt-probnp and the decrease in lvef r p .
 conversely in group b no correlation between proanp nt-probnp alteration and lvef value be find p and p respectively .
 ecg analysis .
 there be no significant ecg change in any of the patient in both group during the study period .
 concerning determination of qtc time no significant prolongation be find .
 follow up .
 concerning group a n 26 twelve 12 patient die due to progressive metastatic disease .
 two 2 of them develop symptom of congestive heart failure dyspnoea peripheral oedema and have to be admit to the hospital for five 5 and seven 7 day twelve 12 and fourteen 14 month after the completion of chemotherapy respectively .
 a significant lvef decline be demonstrate after chemotherapy in both case with an 65 to drop in the former patient and an to drop in the latter .
 during hospitalization echocardiographic study show a far decrease in lvef with in the first patient and in the second .
 regarding natriuretic peptide level proanp increase from before chemotherapy to fmol ml after chemotherapy concern the former patient and to fmol ml for the latter one whereas nt-probnp level increase from 152 to 492 fmol ml and 153 to 571 fmol ml respectively .
 eight 8 patient be still be treat with second and third line chemotherapeutic regimen .
 four 4 patient remain free of disease since the completion of chemotherapy .
 none of the above patient develop symptom of congestive heart failure 2 patient be lose from follow up .
 regarding group b patient n 14 none of them have die of disease progression .
 four 4 patient relapse and subsequently receive second line chemotherapy .
 there be no evidence of disease relapse in eight 8 patient whereas two 2 patient be lose from follow up .
 none develop symptom of cardiac dysfunction .
 discussion .
 the combination of anthracycline and paclitaxel as first line treatment for metastatic breast cancer have be explore in several study show high efficacy and superior level of activity compare to anthracycline and paclitaxel as single drug .
 generally the use of anthracycline have be limited by the development of dose-dependent cardiomyopathy which be among the much severe side effect associate with this drug .
 anthracycline induce cardiotoxicity result in irreversible myocyte damage which be demonstrate as reduce contractility and subsequent clinical heart failure .
 epirubicin demonstrate little myelotoxicity and cardiotoxicity than doxorubicin allow patient to tolerate high dose of the anthracycline .
 the reduce cardiotoxicity of the combination of epirubicin and paclitaxel be probably based upon limited interaction on pharmacokinetic as well as the low cardiotoxic potential of epirubicin .
 the estimate risk for epirubicin-induced chf have be report to be little than at dose below mg m2 but it increase to at mg m2 and to at mg m2 .
 however meinardi et have demonstrate that although the observe degree of subclinical cardiotoxicity with epirubicin-containing chemotherapy may be low in the short term it probably increase in the long term result in the late development of cardiac dysfunction in certain patient .
 the combination of docetaxel and mitoxantrone have not be associate with an increase risk of cardiotoxicity and or the development of chf even in cumulative dose of mg m2 and 22 mg m2 respectively .
 the concurrent administration of this two drug seem to be safe for patient with normal baseline cardiac function .
 special concern be necessary for patient with prior anthracycline therapy mediastinal irradiation or cardiovascular disease .
 in the present study it be clearly confirm that the epirubicin-paclitaxel regimen represent a much cardiotoxic combination than the docetaxel-mitoxantrone one .
 although the mean lvef remain within normal range a decrease from to be record immediately after chemotherapy .
 meinardi et have point out that a reduction in lvef of much than even if lvef value remain within the normal limit as well as an absolute lvef value below may be risk factor for the development of chf in the long term .
 although the cumulative dose of epirubicin be mg m2 mg m2 the observe drop in lvef in study indicate that even at low dose epirubicin contain regimen can cause myocardial damage that be express as an impairment in systolic function .
 although the clinical value of lvef be referred to be limited as sensitivity and specificity seem to be rather low in predict the subsequent occurrence of chf we have demonstrate that significant lvef decline after chemotherapy be associate with the development of chf in two patient few month later .
 concerning natriuretic peptide several study have demonstrate that anp and bnp level be find elevate in patient with heart failure .
 in cardiac impairment the proportional and absolute increment above normal level of the proanp and nt-probnp peptide suggest that this molecule might be much sensitive marker of early cardiac dysfunction than bnp and anp respectively .
 plasma proanp and nt-probnp level be report to be negatively correlated with lvef and the degree of increase in concentration correlate with the severity of heart failure .
 previous study have show that level become elevate before the development of chf and even before a decline in lvef occur .
 in the present study a statistically significant increase of proanp and nt-probnp be find after chemotherapy in group a patient treat with the high risk regimen of epirubicin paclitaxel .
 we have also demonstrate that increase in proanp and nt-probnp level be strongly relate to decrease in lvef value .
 moreover level of proanp and nt-probnp be find excessively increase after chemotherapy in the two patient that develop chf during follow up .
 thus proanp and nt-probnp level might be use as sensitive marker for the detection of either early or late-onset cardiotoxicity .
 in agreement with finding meinardi et have report a significant increase of proanp and nt-probnp level after chemotherapy with epirubicin-containing regimen .
 although none of the patient in study develop overt chf within one year of follow up several finding of mild cardiotoxicity be detect indicate a possible risk for late-onset cardiac dysfunction .
 late onset cardiotoxicity with the development of chf be demonstrate in study where the follow up period be long .
 bauch et have show that anp level be significantly increase in child with cancer that receive doxorubicin-based chemotherapy .
 the much impressive increase be record in a group of six child include two of them that go into chf without a previous lvef decline .
 several previous study have show that an increase in bnp concentration seem to be much sensitive than anp in detection of leave ventricular dysfunction .
 cowie et have demonstrate that plasma bnp be sensitive and specific for identify heart failure and have a positive predictive value of for identify leave ventricular systolic dysfunction .
 study record significant increase in both nt-probnp and proanp in accordance with lvef decline and chf development .
 although several study have show that qtc time prolongation be a sign of cardiotoxicity indicate disturbance in the repolarization of myocardium and probably predispose patient to arrhythmias in the present study neither qtc time prolongation nor arrhythmias be record .
 in conclusion finding indicate that even at low cumulative dose of epirubicin cardiac dysfunction as determine by lvef decline proanp and nt-probnp increase and demonstrate clinically as chf present as a serious side effect .
 proanp and nt-probnp level might be use as reliable and sensitive marker in the detection of early as well as late cardiac impairment cause by epirubicin-based chemotherapy .
 the latter fact i of great importance take into consideration the already compromise quality of life of patient with advance metastatic disease .
 acknowledgement .
 we would like to thank md and department of immunology onnasis cardiac surgery center for valuable assistance regard the enzyme immunoassay .
 the few datum available from experimental study find that disruption of lymphatic vessel may be only temporary and lymphatic be regenerate within a certain period from surgery .
 although this period have never be evaluate regeneration of lymphatic vessel may result in a new lymphatic network which connect a tumour with current lymphatic furthermore when the original lymphatic vessel be interrupt due to surgery the lymphatic drainage from a tumour may follow previously little use collaterals and retain open lymphatic channel to a lymph node this basin however often be different to the basin find without axillary surgery and result in much patient with unexpected lymphatic the lymphatic drainage after previous axillary surgery i of interest in patient with primary or recurrent breast cancer .
 lymphatic mapping in this patient be evaluate only in a few however it should follow the same principle as in patient without prior axillary surgery with the lymphatic drainage from a cancer to an sn be map by injection of a radiocolloid or a vital blue dye .
 possible advantage of a successful mapping and lymph node biopsy be the much thorough examination of a map lymph node and the reduce morbidity in case a negative lymph node be find and complete lymph node dissection of the lymphatic basin be not require .
 in this study we determine the feasibility and accuracy of lymphatic mapping follow previous axillary surgery and look for parameter associate with failure of the mapping procedure in this patient .
 patient and method patient .
 lymphatic mapping be attempt in patient with primary n 7 or recurrent n 23 breast cancer and a history of previous axillary surgery .
 the indication for lymphatic mapping the type of previous breast and axillary surgery be see in table the clinical and pathologic parameter of the patient be see in table eight of patient have a history of previous chemotherapy 15 of patient have a history of radiation follow breast conservation surgery accord to standard treatment protocol .
 diagnosis of breast cancer be make by core needle biopsy in all patient .
 clinical and ultrasonographic evaluation of the axilla prior to lymphatic mapping find negative axillary lymph node in all patient .
 table .
 indication for lymph node mapping type of previous breast and axillary surgery and result of lymph node biopsy n indication for ln mappingtype of previous breast surgerytype of previous axillary surgerynumber of patient with successful ln mappingresult of ln mappingalnd perform positivenegativenot foundyesno primary bc 7subcutaneous mastectomy 1node sampling 2 transaxillary augmentation 2snb 2 nonea 4alnd 1624161 incision only 2 recurrent bc 23quadrantectomy 23alnd snb 11 .
 full-size table .
 abbreviation bc breast cancer ln lymph node snb sentinel node biopsy alnd axillary lymph node dissection .
 a one patient undergo axillary tissue resection due to recurrent abscess formation 3 patient undergo resection of malignant melanoma of the upper arm hand or shoulder .
 view within article .
 table .
 clinicopathologic characteristic of patient undergo lymph node mapping after previous axillary surgery for recurrent n 23 or primary n 7 breast cancer .
 mean sd age year range35 81 menopausal status premenopausal13 postmenopausal17 breast quadrant upper outer14 lower outer7 lower inner2 upper inner5 central2 histology of breast tumour ductal24 lobular2 tubular1 papillary1 intraductal carcinoma in situ high grade2 tumour differentiation g13 g212 g315 estrogen receptor status positive23 negative7 progesterone receptor status positive21 negative9 her-2 neu status negative26 3 positive2 not available2 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 lymph node mapping .
 lymphatic mapping be do use peritumoural injection of a radiocolloid mbq tc99m nanocoll in a volume of ml 18 h prior to surgery .
 preoperative lymphoscintigraphy be do with a gamma camera to determine lymphatic drainage .
 intraoperatively the map lymph node be identify by use of a hand hold gamma probe neoprobe neoprobe dublin oh usa and a vital blue vital dye 5 ml isosulfan blue lymphazurin ben venue bedford oh usa .
 a lymph node be regard as a map node when it be either blue when blue stain lymphatic channel lead directly to a node or a hot node be find with the gamma probe .
 a lymph node be regard as a hot node when the excise node reveal a count great than time the count in the axilla after removal of the sn .
 patient with positive node be suggest an alnd .
 alnd be also suggest to patient with negative lymph node to evaluate the false negative rate .
 no far lymph node dissection be do when the map lymph node be an internal mammary node .
 lymphatic mapping be approve by the local ethic committee review board of the hospital .
 a write inform consent to participate in lymphatic mapping procedure be obtain from all patient .
 pathological examination of lymph node .
 intraoperative freeze section examination of the map lymph node be do in all patient .
 postoperatively negative lymph node be examine use serial section at m interval stain with haematoxylin and eosin he and when negative be far investigate with cytokeratin immunohistochemical ihc stain with an antibody ckkes ckems immunostain euro dpc gwynedd uk to cytokeratin in m section .
 a map lymph node be regard as negative when no tumour be find in the permanent section .
 lymph node remove through alnd be examine in 4 6 section stain with he no immunohistochemical stain be do .
 statistical analysis .
 in addition to an explorative datum analysis the follow test be perform for two group 2 2 frequency table be analyzed with fisher 's exact test not normally distribute metric variable be analyzed with the mann whitney u test normally distribute metric variable test of normality kolmogorov smirnov test with lilliefors significance be analyzed by mean of the two-sample t test for independent sample .
 the spss package version be use for calculation .
 all test be two-tailed with a confidence level of p .
 as many hypothesis be test the error 1 rate be increase .
 no adjustment for the p-value such as bonferroni-corrections be do therefore all p-value be only descriptive .
 result result of lymphoscintigraphy and lymph node biopsy .
 preoperative lymphoscintigraphy reveal a drainage to a lymph node basin in 19 of patient and a mean sd number of map lymph node range 1 3 node be remove in this 19 patient identification rate .
 three of 19 patient have a positive lymph node one with an ihc micrometastasis and undergo alnd .
 in two patient the map lymph node be the only positive lymph node whereas one patient have another positive node in the axillary specimen .
 in one of 19 patient isolate tumour cell be find in the permanent examination in one of two node .
 both node be find in level iii of the axilla after previous alnd and no far lymph node be find in this patient .
 fifteen of 19 patient have a negative lymph node .
 two of this patient have no far lymph node remove for the negative lymph node be remove from the internal mammary basin and the current lymphatic drainage be exclusively to the internal mammary node both patient have a previous alnd .
 thirteen of 15 patient have a completion alnd that find a mean sd number of lymph node range 5 24 lymph node .
 no positive lymph node be find in the axillary specimen false negative rate .
 five of 19 patient have a drainage to extra-axillary lymph node and this be significantly in patient with prior alnd compare to patient with prior sn biopsy versus p fisher 's exact test .
 table .
 lymphatic drainage pattern in 19 patient with previous axillary surgery and a successful lymph node mapping biopsy .
 type of previous axillary surgerylymphatic basinn alnd n 5 contralateral l i1 ima1 l i1 l iii1 l i and ima1 snb node sampling n 12 l i8 ima1 l ii1 l ii and ima1 rotter 's space1 axillary incision only n 2 l i2 .
 full-size table .
 abbreviation ima internal mammary artery node l level of axilla snb sentinel node biopsy alnd axillary lymph node dissection .
 view within article .
 lymph node status in patient with no lymph node find during lymphatic mapping .
 in 11 of patient preoperative lymphoscintigraphy find no drainage to a lymphatic basin and no hot spot or blue node be find intraoperatively .
 eight of 11 patient have a history of previous alnd .
 exploration of the axilla reveal no lymph node in 7 patient whereas 7 negative node be remove in one patient .
 three of 11 patient have prior sn biopsy and alnd find 2 negative node in the axillary specimen in 2 15 and 13 negative node remove and 2 positive node out of 15 in 1 patient .
 parameters associate with a failure of the lymphatic mapping .
 mean sd time between previous axillary surgery and the mapping procedure be month range 21 387 month for patient with a successful mapping compare to month range 58 133 month for patient with no node find during lymphatic mapping p mann whitney u test .
 patient with previous chemotherapy and or previous radiation show a low not significant identification rate table 4a c .
 the number of previously remove lymph node be associate with a decrease identification rate and this be statistically significant when or much lymph node be remove during prior axillary surgery p .
 a positive lymphoscintigraphy with a lymphatic drainage see on lymphoscintigram be significantly associate with a successful lymphatic mapping p .
 table .
 correlation between previous chemotherapy a previous radiation b previous chemotherapy and radiation c perform and a successful lymph node mapping in patient with previous axillary surgery .
 successful mappingmapping failurep-value a patient with previous no previous chemotherapy166 fisher 's exact test 1911 .
 b patient with previous no previous radiation114 fisher 's exact test 1511 .
 c patient with previous radiation and no previous radiation and chemotherapy166 fisher 's exact test 1911 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 table .
 correlation between the number of previously remove node and a successful lymph node mapping in patient with previous axillary surgery .
 number of node removedsuccessful mappingmapping failurep-value fisher 's exact test 1911 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 table .
 correlation between positive lymphoscintigraphy a successful lymph node mapping .
 successful mappingmapping failurep-value patient with positive patient with negative fisher exact test .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 lymphatic mapping successfully identify lymph node in of patient with previous axillary surgery .
 this be considerably low than the identification rate report with sn mapping in breast cancer patient without prior axillary surgery but be comparable to other study which find an identification rate of 48 in this only a study publish from the european cancer institute in milan describe a identification rate in 18 patient with re-operation sn the high identification rate find in this study may be relate to the fact that all patient of the study have prior sn biopsy leave an almost unaltered drainage to the axillary lymph node .
 the correlation between prior alnd or sn biopsy and the identification rate be also see in study .
 patient with prior sn biopsy have an identification rate of compare to after alnd which show that the success of lymph node mapping after axillary surgery depend on the number of previously remove lymph node .
 similar to a study by port et study find that a number of much than lymph node remove previously from the axilla be significantly associate with an unsuccessful sn mapping .
 the decrease identification rate see with lymphatic mapping after previous axillary surgery be attributed to the disruption of lymphatic vessel drain from a breast tumour to the regional lymph node cause by surgery chemotherapy or radiation .
 the regeneration of disrupt lymphatic vessel follow surgery have be describe in experimental study but have never be evaluate in patient .
 furthermore it remain unknown whether the regeneration of the lymphatic be associate with the length of time from surgery .
 however in study the time between previous axillary surgery and lymphatic mapping have no impact on the success of the mapping procedure .
 lymphatic mapping in patient with no prior axillary surgery follow lymphatic to ipsilateral axillary node in much lymphatic drainage exclusively to sn outside the axilla be see only in a small number of patient and the number of patient with positive extra-axillary sn s without the involvement of the axillary node be even as it may be expect the lymphatic drainage to extra-axillary lymph node be see much often in patient with prior axillary surgery than in patient without axillary perre et report of lymphatic drainage pattern in 23 patient follow either alnd or radiotherapy .
 in study an sn be identify in prior to surgery but only in when sn mapping be do 6 week follow surgery .
 the lymphatic drainage find with sn mapping be to the ipsilateral axilla in much patient but also to the ipsilateral and contralateral internal mammary chain and the contralateral sood et report of four patient with recurrent or primary breast cancer and a history of prior alnd .
 lymphoscintigraphy find a lymphatic drainage to node outside the ipsilateral axilla in all four patient .
 agarwal et report two patient who have sn find in the contralateral axilla .
 roumen et find 7 out of successfully map sn in either the internal mammary chain or the contralateral axilla .
 in study a lymphatic drainage to extra-axillary lymphatic node be find in of the patient .
 extra-axillary drainage be much often after previous alnd with than after prior sn biopsy with .
 the success of lymphatic mapping be significantly associate with a positive lymphoscintigraphy .
 no lymph node be map in patient with a negative lymphoscintigram or when no hot spot be find intraoperatively despite the use of a vital blue dye in every patient .
 therefore all patient with primary or recurrent breast cancer and a history of prior axillary surgery should be schedule to preoperative lymphoscintigraphy when lymphatic mapping be plan .
 this be contrary to sn mapping in patient with previously untreated axillae in whom blue dye alone allow successful mapping in a large number of .
 study find that patient with a history of previous chemotherapy and or radiation treatment and axillary surgery have a low identification rate compare to patient who have only previous axillary surgery .
 however the lack of statistical significance associate with this factor simply be due to the small sample size and should be far evaluate with a large group of patient .
 the effect of radiotherapy on the lymphatic drainage pattern in breast cancer patient have not be describe yet .
 however histopathological change such as fibrosis of the breast tissue be commonly after radiation treatment and result in distortion of lymphatic vessel and a decrease identification rate of sn the negative impact of chemotherapy on the identification rate have be describe in patient undergo sn mapping after preoperative chemotherapy and may be relate to obstruction of the lymphatic drainage with the lymphatic tissue be replace by fibrotic the crucial issue however when it come to implement lymphatic node mapping after previous axillary surgery into clinical practice be the false negative rate of the procedure .
 in order to become clinically applicable the false negative rate should be comparable to current study with sn biopsy in patient without prior axillary surgery which in experience hand should be little than in study no false negative result be find yet but the number of patient be too small to draw a definitive conclusion on that issue and may require a meta-analysis of different institution .
 conclusion .
 lymphatic mapping after axillary surgery be associate with a decrease identification rate but the false negative rate be zero .
 the lymphatic drainage pattern in this patient be unpredictable and the use of a radionuclide for mapping be prerequisite for a successful mapping procedure .
 conflict of interest .
 there be no conflict of interest of any of the author of the manuscript no financial and personal relationship with other people or organisation that inappropriately influence the work .
 there be no commercial funding of the study .
 acknowledgement .
 statistical analysis be support by a grant of the ludwig boltzmann institute for surgical laparoscopy akh linz and the krebshilfe oberoesterreich .
 figure 1 show site of first breast cancer the much common metastatic site be and approximately woman with breast cancer die from bone metastases each .
 full-size image 15k figure site of first .
 view within article .
 survival follow recurrence be significantly long for patient with a locoregional recurrence median time year versus patient who develop dm median time year .
 the site of distant metastasis affect the prognosis .
 patient with bone as the first site of metastasis have well overall survival os 71 month versus 48 month p and survival after first metastases 24 month versus 12 month p than do patient with visceral five-year os rate be and for patient with bone lung or liver metastases .
 because about of breast cancer express hormonal receptor and be potentially endocrine therapy be essential in the management of breast cancer patient .
 adjuvant endocrine therapy trial of tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitor ai report efficacy in term of disease-free survival dfs and distant dfs ddfs .
 therapy able to reduce the risk of breast cancer recurrence especially those that reduce dm be likely to have the much significant beneficial effect on increase survival time in patient diagnose with early breast cancer .
 this review will discuss the timing and risk factor for dm and the efficacy of the current third-generation ai in reduce the risk of dm in postmenopausal patient with breast cancer .
 timing of recurrence .
 the peak hazard period for recurrence be observe during the first 2 year after surgery but the risk be ongoing .
 even 12 year after the diagnosis it be not zero the rate of recurrence be at year 5 8 at year 8 12 and at year 5 .
 a different timing of recurrence have be observe in hormonal receptor positive and negative breast cancer in hormone receptor-negative disease the risk for breast cancer relapse be high during the first 5 year with a peak between the first and the third year after surgery after the fifth year the risk decrease dramatically .
 in hormone receptor-positive disease the peak of relapse between the first and third year be low than that observe in hormone receptor-negative tumor and after the fifth year the risk remain high especially in node-positive in postmenopausal hormone receptor-positive patient treat with endocrine therapy early recurrence occur much frequently in the presence of one or much of the follow tumor-related factor large tumor size 2 cm high number of involve axillary lymph node poor histological grade low level of estrogen receptor and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 early relapse rate range from to and the majority of them be .
 type of breast cancer recurrence predict factor and overall survival .
 the site of first dm remain poorly predictable although a much frequent association have be observe between hormonal receptor negativity and the development of visceral metastases and between lobular histology and the development of serosal surface recent datum indicate that her2 overexpressing breast cancer patient be at increase risk for brain in the future gene expression profile may well predict the site of breast cancer .
 after breast-conserving surgery young age 35 year vascular invasion and extensive in situ carcinoma be associate with a high risk of local recurrence while after mastectomy only the vascular invasion retain an independent role in predict local a local recurrence be associate with a high risk of develop dm .
 patient who develop a local recurrence have a threefold increase risk of dm as compare to patient without local irrespective of type recurrence be associate with increase mortality in patient with early breast cancer but the effect on mortality be great in patient with distant a recent retrospective cohort study of 1616 patient with early stage i ii breast cancer find the 5 year os for patient with no recurrence to be versus and for patient with dm and locoregional recurrence compared with the non-recurrence group the hazard ratio hr for death any cause be high for patient with a distant recurrence hr p follow by locoregional recurrence hr p and the contralateral recurrence group hr p with similar trend observe for breast cancer-specific death hr distant versus locoregional p another small study of patient find dm to be the much frequent type of recurrence eight isolate local recurrence 33 dm and 16 local recurrence with dm and be associate with the low 5- and year survival rate median survival time after an isolate local first recurrence and a distant metastatic first event be and year .
 table .
 five- and year survival rate after event follow local and distant metastatic recurrence19 .
 5 year survival ci year survival ci overall survival after local as a first event 67 45 overall survival after distant as a first event 18 7 full-size table .
 ci confidence interval .
 view within article .
 the impact of adjuvant endocrine therapy on distant metastases tamoxifen .
 the meta-analysis of the early breast cancer trialists collaborative group show that at a median follow-up of 15 year 5 year of adjuvant tamoxifen therapy significantly reduce recurrence by and mortality by in patient with estrogen receptor-positive tumor .
 adjuvant tamoxifen therapy reduce the risk of local recurrence by hr p and the risk of dm by hr p the introduction of aromatase inhibitor in the adjuvant therapy do improve such result lead to the recommendation that optimal hormonal therapy for a post-menopausal woman should include an aromatase inhibitor as initial therapy or after treatment with five year of tamoxifen be again an available option for some subgroup of postmenopausal patient such as patient with major contraindication to aromatase inhibitor or patient who do not tolerate aromatase inhibitor .
 aromatase inhibitor .
 in the adjuvant setting ai have be evaluate by use three different strategy initial therapy for 5 year after the diagnosis upfront strategy switch therapy with the switch to the ai after 2 3 year of tamoxifen switch strategy and extend therapy with the use of the ai after 5 year of tamoxifen extend adjuvant strategy .
 all study evaluate the role of ai as adjuvant therapy for postmenopausal early breast cancer patient report the impact of this drug in term of distant metastases with vary degree .
 however some difference in define dm as the study end point exist between trial .
 time to distant metastases be define as time from random assignment to distant recurrence ignore local regional contralateral breast recurrence and second non-breast malignancy and censor death without recurrence in an upfront study with in study use a switch strategy with tamoxifen follow by and in a study of extend therapy with letrozole after 5 year of in the switch strategy with exemestane intergroup exemestane study ies event consider in time to distant recurrence include not only distant recurrence but also death from breast cancer and death with unknown cause with no metastases report .
 the type of event consider for calculate time to distant metastases be not report in the upfront study with the impact of this drug on time to distant metastases in the various trial be report in table .
 table .
 efficacy end point from adjuvant trial compare tamoxifen with aromatase inhibitor .
 studymedian follow-up year disease-free survival hr ci p valuetime to distant metastases hr ci p valueoverall survivalhr ci p value upfront strategy p big 1 p .
 switch strategy p meta-analysis of anastrozole p .
 extended adjuvant therapy p .
 full-size table .
 the definition of end point between the trial and the design of the trial may vary the respective risk reduction should be interpret with this in mind .
 atac arimidex tamoxifen alone or in combination big breast international group ci confidence interval hr hazard ratio ies intergroup exemestane study nr not report .
 a result observe in patient with hormone receptor-positive tumor .
 b result obtain in patient with estrogen receptor-positive and estrogen receptor-unknown tumor .
 c in node-positive group hr ci p value .
 view within article .
 upfront strategy with anastrozole .
 initial result of the arimidex tamoxifen alone or in combination trial report significantly improve dfs in patient receive anastrozole n 3125 compare with those receive tamoxifen n 3166 at 68 month follow-up 324 total distant metastases occur in the anastrozole arm and 375 occur in the tamoxifen arm .
 there be a significant prolongation in the time to dm p 27 in the overall population .
 in the subset of hormone receptor-positive patient there be a significant risk reduction of in dfs hr p and a trend toward reduction in the incidence of dm hr ci p there be no significant benefit in survival in the overall population hr p and the reduction in death from breast cancer in the anastrozole group be also not significant hr p .
 upfront strategy with letrozole .
 the breast international group big 1 98 trial be examine the effect of tamoxifen or adjuvant letrozole monotherapy trial arm a and b respectively as well as sequential adjuvant therapy with tamoxifen 2 year follow by letrozole arm c or letrozole 2 year follow by tamoxifen arm d for a total of 5 year in postmenopausal woman with breast at a median follow-up of month the primary core analysis include patient from the monotherapy arm and the sequential arm .
 a total of 779 dfs event have occur .
 patient receive letrozole demonstrate a improvement in dfs p and a reduction p in the risk of dm compare with patient in the tamoxifen .
 another analysis of big 1 98 at 2 year median follow-up report that dm be the much common type of early recurrence occur in of 216 event and initial adjuvant letrozole therapy markedly reduce the risk of early dm 87 dm event with letrozole versus 125 dm event with tamoxifen reduction 11 .
 updated result from big 1 98 obtain at a median of 51 month and consider the monotherapy arm only n 2463 letrozole n 2459 tamoxifen continue to demonstrate the superiority of letrozole over tamoxifen in dfs as well as in reduction in the risk of dm hr ci p 22 .
 switch aromatase inhibitor therapy .
 trial which evaluate the switch strategy can be far subdivide in trial use an unplanned switch and trial use a plan switch .
 in the former trial ita28 and arno29 study only patient who have no recurrence after 2 3 year of tamoxifen be randomized to continue tamoxifen or to switch to ai whist in the trial use the plan switch and big 1 9821 patient be randomized to either 5 year of tamoxifen or tamoxifen follow by ai at diagnosis .
 as a consequence patient with early recurrence on tamoxifen would be count as failure in the plan switch trial but would no enter the unplanned switch trail thus potentially biasing this former trial to much favorable result .
 final datum from abcsg8 and big 1 98 will indicate if result from plan switch trail will be different from those of plan switch one .
 among study use plan or unplanned switch datum from anastrozole and exemestane be available but datum for letrozole sequential arm of big 1 98 be expect in .
 anastrozole .
 pooled result of the three available in which anastrozole have be use as plan or unplanned switch therapy after 2 3 year of tamoxifen have be report in a recently publish patient who switch to anastrozole have significant improvement in distant recurrence-free survival hr ci p and os hr ci p .
 because trial include in this meta-analysis be variable in design and inclusion criterion two unplanned switch ita and arno study and one plan switch trial abcsg-8 study result be possibly unreliable and must be interpret cautiously .
 exemestane .
 the ies study which can be classify as unplanned switch trial examine the efficacy and safety of switch to exemestane n 2362 follow 2 3 year of tamoxifen adjuvant therapy for a total of 5 year or continue tamoxifen n for 5 the much recent analysis of the ies conduct at month of follow-up demonstrate an improvement in dfs unadjusted hr p and time to distant recurrence hr p in the overall patient population .
 similarly improvement in dfs unadjusted hr p time to distant recurrence hr p and os unadjusted hr p be observe in the patient .
 extended adjuvant therapy .
 more than half of breast cancer recurrence and death occur after 5 year of tamoxifen the majority of this delay recurrence be distant metastatic event emphasize that there be still a need to reduce the long-term risk of a potential strategy to reduce the risk of delay recurrence be the extension of endocrine therapy beyond 5 year .
 various trial compare about versus 5 year of tamoxifen and be cumulatively analyzed by the ebctcg although long treatment with tamoxifen appear to involve slightly low recurrence and breast cancer mortality rate the finding be not reliably informative because of the low number of event .
 on the other hand non-breast-cancer mortality appear to be great among patient allocate long treatment .
 although this difference be not clearly significant versus year death rate ratio se 2p clinician prefer not to recommend tamoxifen beyond 5 year at least until a statistically reliable evidence emerge both for recurrence and particularly for mortality from trial of versus 5 year of tamoxifen .
 extended adjuvant therapy with ai now offer woman far protection against delay relapse .
 anastrozole .
 the small open-label austrian breast and colorectal cancer study group trial 6a evaluate the efficacy of extend adjuvant anastrozole n 387 compare with no treatment n 469 in postmenopausal woman with endocrine-responsive early breast cancer .
 at month of follow-up overall disease recurrence be reduce with anastrozole hr p additional efficacy result show distant metastatic recurrence in of patient receive anastrozole 16 387 and in of those receive no treatment 35 469 this preliminary result may suggest a beneficial effect of anastrozole in the extend adjuvant setting however no safety datum have be report or publish to date .
 letrozole .
 the impact of extend adjuvant letrozole therapy on dm have be evaluate in the phase iii double-blind randomized trial compare letrozole versus placebo after 5 year of tamoxifen n 5187 after a median follow-up of month year the letrozole arm demonstrate a significant reduction hr ci p in the risk of distant breast cancer subgroup analysis also demonstrate the superiority of letrozole in several prespecified subgroup include node-negative and node-positive patient and those with and without prior chemotherapy .
 four-year dfs be in the letrozole arm and in the placebo arm p .
 no difference between the arm have be observe for overall survival in versus respectively p however a survival advantage be apparent in woman with node-positive breast cancer .
 in this group which comprise approximately of all patient in the risk of death be reduce by a significant compare with placebo hr p .
 exemestane .
 the national surgical adjuvant breast and bowel project b-33 trial have examine the use of exemestane versus placebo as extend adjuvant therapy in patient treat with tamoxifen for 5 year .
 the trial be blind prematurely as a result of the reporting of the trial result and full accrual be not despite the subsequent crossover of about of the placebo patient receive exemestane in the trial at a median follow-up of month exemestane-treated patient have a statistically significant improvement in relapse-free survival versus relative risk p but there be no statistically significant difference in the risk of distant metastases 11 event in the exemestane group versus 16 event in the placebo group p or in os 13 death in the placebo group versus 16 in the exemestane group relative risk p .
 which ai treatment strategy be much effective at reduce the risk of distant metastases in patient with a new diagnosis of breast cancer direct comparison between upfront and switch strategy be ongoing in two randomized trial big 1 98 and the tamoxifen exemestane adjuvant multicenter study .
 waiting for the result of such study oncologist face the problem of choose between this two strategy .
 available datum suggest that some tumor-related factor may help identify patient at high risk of early relapse ie within the first 2 year after the diagnosis .
 such factor include those that can predict de novo resistance to tamoxifen her2 overexpression and low level of er and those associate with highly aggressive tumor such as large tumor size 2 cm high number 4 of metastatic lymph node poor histological grading and vascular invasion .
 the majority of early relapse be distant metastases .
 data from the big 1 98 trial show that local and distant recurrence be and respectively in tamoxifen-treated patient and and respectively in letrozole-treated because treatment with letrozole be much effective than tamoxifen in reduce early patient at high risk of such recurrence should receive upfront therapy with ai .
 for patient without risk factor for early relapse the good strategyie upfront or switch therapyremains unknown .
 waiting for the result of trial directly compare the two strategy in term of both efficacy and tolerability the different toxicity profile of tamoxifen and ai36 may help clinician in choose between the two strategy in individual patient .
 in newly diagnose patient a potential strategy be a plan extend therapy a prospective policy of 5 year of tamoxifen follow by additional 5 year of ai .
 however the high recurrence rate of nearly 13 in the first 5 year of tamoxifen be not counterbalance by the expect absolute benefit of observe with the extend therapy .
 because the early during the first 5 year by up-front or plan switch strategy introduction of ai have be already demonstrate able to reduce the recurrence rate in the first 5 year of 3 it be preferable to the delay introduction of ai in newly diagnose patient .
 which ai be much effective at reduce the risk of distant metastases there be as yet no directly comparative datum for the ai regard efficacy at reduce dm .
 result of a randomized crossover study in 54 postmenopausal woman show that 12 week treatment with letrozole be significantly much effective than anastrozole in reduce median estradiol level p similarly in a double-blind crossover comparison the inhibition of aromatization be significantly great with letrozole than with in this cross-over study patient be treat with anastrozole follow by letrozole or vice versa .
 the mean percentage of inhibition of aromatase level be during treatment with anastrozole and during letrozole treatment .
 treatment with anastrozole suppress plasma level of estrone estradiol and estrone sulfate by a mean of and respectively whereas treatment with letrozole cause a corresponding decrease of and respectively .
 the suppression of estrone and estrone sulfate be significantly well during treatment with letrozole compare with anastrozole p and respectively whether this difference in potency be clinically relevant be not know .
 in one directly comparative open-label study of letrozole versus anastrozole on 713 patient for the second-line treatment of advance breast cancer letrozole appear to be much effective than anastrozole in term of response rate versus p but there be not significant difference in time to progression which be the primary end point of this study ttp month for both treatment ongoing trial compare the different type of ai in the adjuvant setting will clarify the issue of the good ai .
 conclusion .
 timing of breast cancer recurrence be affect by the hormonal receptor status .
 a 2 year peak of recurrence be see in patient with hormone receptor-negative tumor as well as in patient with hormone receptor-positive tumor but the peak be much pronounce in those with hormone receptor-negative tumor .
 among hormone receptor-positive tumor a high incidence of early relapse within the first 2 year be observe in patient with her2 overexpression low er level high number 4 of metastatic axillary lymph node poor histological grade large tumor size and presence of vascular invasion .
 patient with hormone receptor-positive tumor retain a high risk of recurrence much than 5 year after the diagnosis .
 the majority of breast cancer recurrence be dm which represent the much significant challenge and threaten patient survival .
 adjuvant endocrine therapy with tamoxifen reduce the risk of breast cancer recurrence include dm but the ai have be show to be superior to tamoxifen at reduce recurrence risk especially the risk of dm .
 all of the different strategy use to administer ai as adjuvant therapy be able to reduce the risk of dm .
 while wait for the result of ongoing trial compare upfront and switch strategy in patient with a new diagnosis of breast cancer the individual risk of early recurrence may help oncologist choose between this two strategy .
 for individual at great risk for early recurrence an upfront ai strategy may be much appropriate than a switch strategy .
 funding .
 del mastro receive honorarium for speaker activity from astrazeneca and novartis .
 venturini receive honorarium for speaker activity from novartis and pfizer .
 first progesterone be difficult to study in isolation from other hormone growth factor prolactin that also contribute to breast cancer biology .
 second progesterone receptor pr isoform be express in response to estrogen receptor-alpha er mediate transcriptional event but can also occur independently of er .
 the subset of mammary epithelial cell mec in the breast that express both pr-a and pr-b also express er and estrogen be usually require in order to induce the robust expression of pr in this cell .
 as estrogen be also a potent breast mitogen this make it difficult to separate the effect of progesterone alone from those of estrogen .
 indeed pr isoform be grossly understudy relative to er in both the normal and neoplastic breast .
 study in steroid hormone receptor knock-out mouse have reveal that the concerted action of estrogen and progesterone be require for normal mammary gland development estrogen er promote the growth of duct that invade the mammary fat pad emanating from the nipple while estrogen er and progesterone pr be require for the development of the terminal end-buds tebs or acini locate at the end of duct that later become the milk produce structure in the lactate mammary gland .
 additional require hormone know as epidermal growth factor egf and insulin-like growth factor igf-1 augment the proliferation of terminal end-buds during normal breast development and promote ductal outgrowth and side branch induce by estrogen plus progesterone .
 in fact pr isoform expression in response to estrogen require the presence of egf suggest the existence of important cross talk between egf receptor egfr and or family member erbb2 and both steroid hormone receptor .
 full-size image 73k mammary gland a acini locate at the end of duct in the adult mammary gland be the functional unit of the lactate mammary gland .
 luminal epithelial cell apical exist as polar cell in contact with myoepithelial cell basal .
 epithelial cell population be separate from the stroma by a basement b steroid hormone receptor positive cell occur adjacent to proliferate cell in the normal mammary gland .
 communication paracrine signaling between the epithelial and stromal compartment mediate proliferation of er pr negative cell .
 early event during breast cancer development may mediate switch from paracrine to autocrine mechanism of proliferation in cell .
 view within article .
 another limitation to decipher a role for progesterone pr action in breast cancer development be that normal proliferate breast epithelial cell be steroid hormone receptor negative .
 in the normal adult mammary gland cell represent only about 7 of the luminal epithelial cell population this cell be much often non-dividing but usually lie adjacent to proliferate cell .
 the much current information suggest that cell be capable of proliferate but be growth-arrested by the expression of inhibitory molecule such as tgf-beta or high level of p21 and p27 the endogenous inhibitor of cell-cycle-dependent protein kinase cdk .
 communication between the breast epithelial and stromal compartment mediate the proliferation of nearby or adjacent cell by expression and secretion of locally active pro-proliferative molecule such as wnts igf-ii or stroma-derived hepatocyte growth factor hgf .
 recent evidence suggest that cell may act as feeder cell by provide growth-promoting substance wnts to nearby progenitor or stem cell population .
 in contrast to the normal breast where proliferate cell be much often devoid of steroid hormone receptor the majority of breast cancer express er and pr at the time of diagnosis .
 although steroid hormone receptor-positive tumor be much often slow grow relative to receptor-negative tumor breast epithelial cell may undergo an early switch to autocrine or paracrine signaling mechanism whereby negative control on proliferation be somehow lift .
 another set where pr-containing cell clearly divide be in the pregnant mammary gland where pr-b colocalizes with cyclin d1 in brdu-stained divide cell .
 thus pathway involve in normal mammary gland growth and development may inappropriately re-assert themselves during breast cancer progression .
 experimental evidence in model organism primate mouse rat and human suggest a pro-proliferative role for progestin .
 herein we review the status of progesterone pr action in breast cancer model and suggest a potential for future development of pr antagonist as part of combine breast cancer therapy .
 integration of pr classical and membrane-associated rapid signaling .
 pr isoform be classically define as ligand-activated transcription factor and member of a large family of relate steroid hormone receptor that include er androgen receptor ar glucocorticoid receptor gr and mineralocorticoid receptor .
 pr be activate upon binding of the naturally occur ovarian steroid hormone progesterone or via binding to synthetic ligand progestin and regulate gene expression by binding directly or indirectly to specific site in dna .
 three pr isoform be the distinct protein product of a single gene locate on chromosome 11 at q22-23 .
 transcription of pr isoform be govern by the use of distal and proximal promoter region .
 the presence of internal translational start site within common mrna result in the creation of three protein isoform that consist of the full length pr-b 116 kda n-terminally truncate pr-a 94 kda and pr-c-isoforms kda .
 pr-positive cell much often co-express pr-a and pr-b isoform this receptor exhibit different transcriptional activity within the same promoter context but can also recognize entirely different gene promoter .
 pr-b be essential for normal mammary gland development while pr-a be require for uterine development and reproductive function .
 pr-c be devoid of transcriptional activity but when express can enhance pr activity in breast cancer cell or function as a dominant inhibitor of pr-b in the uterus .
 full-size image 64k progesterone receptor-dependent integrate a ligand activate pr-b and pr-a transcription factor contain a hormone binding domain hbd hinge region h dna-binding domain dbd and amino terminus .
 activation function afs represent the site of co-regulator interaction require for transcription .
 serines 294 345 and be regulatory site that be phosphorlyated in response to progestin and or mitogenic signaling pathway that modify pr b phosphorylation p of specific site in pr couple multiple receptor 1 ligand-binding mediate dissociation of heat-shock protein hsp and nuclear accumulation of 2 nuclear pr regulate gene expression via the classical pre-dependent pathway phosphorylated pr recruit regulatory molecule that be phospho-proteins and may function in one or much inter-connected process transcription localization and turnover .
 3 pr and growth factor activate mapk via a c-src kinase-dependent pathway and this may result in positive regulation of pr transcriptional activity via feed-back regulation direct phosphorylation of liganded pr or co-activators occur in both the absence and presence of ligand and on pre-containing or other pr-regulated gene 4 activation of mapk by pr provide for regulation of gene promoter do not contain pre and be otherwise independent of pr-transcriptional activity but utilize pr-activated 5 in response to progestin c-src and mapk-dependent phosphorylation of pr ser345 mediate tether to sp1 and selective regulation of growth promote gene via sp1 site p21 egfr .
 view within article .
 unliganded pr be complexed with chaperone molecule include heat shock protein hsp this interaction allow proper protein fold and assembly of stable pr molecule competent to bind hormone .
 hsps also mediate important aspect of pr protein trafficking .
 after binding to progesterone receptor conformational change induce dimerization and hsp dissociation .
 activated receptor associate with co-regulator include steroid receptor coactivators srcs 1 3 be withhold in the nucleus and bind directly to specific progesterone response element pre and pre-like sequence in the promoter region of target gene such as c-myc fatty acid synthetase and mmtv .
 treatment with progestin also result in the upregulation of gene without canonical pre in proximal promoter region such as epidermal growth factor receptor c-fos p21 irs-2 and cyclin d1 .
 regulation of gene without pre pre half-sites or pre-like sequence can occur through pr tether to other dna-binding transcription factor such as specificity protein 1 activate protein 1 or signal transducer and activator of transcription stat .
 the genomic or classical action of steroid hormone treatment be delay by several minute to hour dictate by the time require for transcription and translation of target gene .
 recently however rapidly occur within a few minute extranuclear or non-genomic effect of cell membrane-localized steroid hormone receptor have enter the forefront .
 for example progestin treatment of breast cancer cell cause a rapid and transient 2 15 min activation of cytoplasmic protein kinase include mitogen-activated protein kinase mapk pi3k and kinase .
 similar activity have be report for membrane-associated eralpha and ar .
 this effect be mediate by direct binding of steroid hormone receptor to protein protein interaction domain of signaling molecule locate in or near the plasma membrane in close proximity to growth factor receptor and immediate effector .
 human pr contain an n-terminal proline-rich pxxp motif that mediate direct binding to the src-homology three sh3 domain of signaling molecule in the kinase family in a ligand-dependent manner .
 in vitro experiment demonstrate that progestin-bound purify pr-a and pr-b directly activate the c-src-related protein kinase hck pr-b but not pr-a activate c-src and mapk in vivo .
 mutation of the pxxp sequence in pr-b disrupt the c-src pr interaction and block progestin-induced activation of c-src or hck and p42 p44 mapk .
 furthermore mutation of the pr-b dna-binding domain dbd abolish pr transcriptional activity without block progestin-induced c-src or map kinase activation .
 thus non-genomic mapk activation by progestin c-src complex much likely occur by way of a c-src-dependent mechanism involve ras activation of the raf mapk module .
 er in association with other signaling and adaptor molecule be suspect to reside in similar cytoplasmic signaling complex possibly in association with pr and c-src .
 in study use human breast or prostate cancer cell line the rapid signaling action of membrane-associated ar pr and or er have be show to contribute to the regulation of cell proliferation in response to respective hormone ligand .
 while potential role in human physiology whole organism be little clear steroid hormone receptor-mediated activation of cytoplasmic signaling molecule may primarily serve to potentiate the nuclear function of this receptor .
 for example amplification of pr nuclear function likely occur through rapid direct phosphorylation of pr protein and or receptor co-regulator in response to activation of pr-induced cytoplasmic pathway that be mechanistically couple to ligand binding .
 thus appropriately phosphorylated and activate receptor complex be efficiently direct to select target gene .
 clearly such positive feedback explain the dramatic influence of activate signaling pathway on pr nuclear function .
 indeed several progestin pr-dependent event be mapk or c-src-dependent include upregulation of cyclin d1 and e cdk2 activation s-phase entry and anchorage-independent cell growth in soft-agar .
 c-src- and mapk-dependent direct phosphorylation of pr ser345 be require for pr tether to sp1 transcription factor bind to the p21 and egfr promoter .
 pr sp1 tether upon c-src mapk pathway activation be predict to alter pr promoter selectivity favoring the use of sp1-driven promoter within pr-target gene .
 kinase also confer hyperactivity and ligand-independence to phosphorylated pr-b .
 for example mapk mediate pr hypersensitivity to ligand by phosphorylation of pr ser294 an event that derepresses receptor activity by prevent pr sumoylation .
 activated cdk2 or loss of p27 induce pr ligand-independent activity via phosphorylation .
 although much study be need it be become clear that activation of cytoplasmic protein kinase be an integral feature of pr nuclear action phosphorylation event be require for gene regulation lead to change in cell biology .
 thus rapid phosphorylation event may primarily act to alter pr transcriptional activity but clearly also mediate promoter selectivity .
 how might the membrane-associated signaling action of steroid hormone receptor include pr contribute to deregulated breast cancer cell growth and or increase breast cancer risk perhaps by link steroid hormone action to the expression of mapk-regulated gene the endpoint of mapk signaling be the phosphorylation of transcription factor .
 in support of this concept the extranuclear action of liganded er induce a state of adaptive hypersensitivity during endocrine therapy in which growth factor signaling pathway be co-opt by upregulated er .
 in this model of er-dependent mapk activation liganded er localized at the cell membrane interact with the adapter protein shc and induce phosphorylation lead to recruitment of adaptor molecule and activation of ras and the raf-1 mapk module .
 mapk then regulate gene via direct phosphorylation of ets factor and or ap1 component independently of er transcriptional activity .
 er activation of mapk explain why many tumor respond well to aromatase inhibitor yet fail to respond to selective estrogen receptor modulator serms design to inhibit er transcriptional activity in the nucleus but not er-dependent mapk activation in the cytoplasm .
 breast cancer often exhibit heighten c-src and mapk activity and elevate cyclin d1 an ap1 target gene expression be sensitive to multiple kinase input .
 steroid hormone receptor include pr may contribute to the constitutive signaling of cytoplasmic mitogenic protein kinase via membrane-associated activity thereby circumvent endocrine-based antiestrogen therapy .
 probing pr action in animal model .
 study in rodent demonstrate that pr-a and pr-b be differentially express during mammary gland development with pr-a predominantly express during ductal sidebranching while pr-b expression coincide with the formation of alveoli .
 pr-b but not pr-a be express in proliferate cell .
 some but not all proliferate cell in both compartment be suggest that progesterone may induce proliferation through either direct or paracrine mechanism .
 in contrast cell in adult virgin gland be pr and cyclin d1 positive but fail to proliferate possibly due to high level of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase inhibitor p21 and p27 .
 during the menstrual cycle mec undergo sequential wave of proliferation and apoptosis .
 notably in primate macaques and human increase terminal duct lobular unit cell proliferation coincide with the peak of serum progesterone that occur during the luteal phase again suggest a paracrine mechanism for this hormone in adult tissue .
 upregulation of local igf-1 may be a cooperate factor in this regard .
 in animal model of postmenopausal hormone replacement therapy both parous and nulliparous early and late postmenopausal mouse be subject to estrogen alone e or estrogen plus progestin e p e p produce a greater proliferative response relative to e alone regardless of parity or treatment time .
 e p be also show to act directly on the mammary gland rather than via systemic effect .
 similar result occur in surgically postmenopausal macaques and in postmenopausal human .
 although breast cancer development be not modeled in the above animal study the result increase proliferation be consistent with human clinical datum which reveal increase tumor number and size in woman take e p while e alone do not significantly alter breast cancer risk or tumor size .
 progesterone may act via proto-oncogene and growth factor to affect breast cell proliferation and breast cancer etiology .
 as the majority of early breast cancer lesion express both er and pr and this receptor remain high in at least of advance decease early event may include a switch in the ability of normally quiescent cell to respond directly to steroid hormone and proliferate .
 notably deregulation of the cell cycle be a hallmark of breast cancer .
 up to of breast cancer overexpress cyclin d1 while at least have lose p27 or p21 and or contain activate cdk2 .
 mutation or loss of p53 be also a frequent occurrence .
 numerous in vitro study have demonstrate linkage of pr action to cell cycle regulation .
 namely pr interact directly with cyclin a or e and cdk2 .
 pr activity be high in the dna synthesis s phase of the cell cycle when cdk2 activity peak .
 furthermore pr transcriptional activity become ligand-independent and cdk2-driven upon loss of p27 .
 progestin act through pr-b-dependent transcription induce cyclin d1 expression and cell cycle re-entry in antiestrogen-arrested breast cancer cell .
 this suggest that in the breast progesterone pr action be tightly couple to mechanism of cell cycle control .
 in breast cancer the mitogenic potential of activate pr may manifest particularly during loss of checkpoint control and or elevation of cdk or other mitogenic kinase activity .
 for example tgf- an egfr ligand transgenic mouse develop proliferative hyperplasia early lesion that rapidly progress to pr- tumor .
 recent in vitro study demonstrate that brca-1 knock-down enhance progestin-induced pr transcriptional activity while progestin-induced mec proliferation be increase in genetically engineer mouse lack brca-1 in the mammary gland .
 related to this finding in recent study use mouse lack mammary gland expression of both brca-1 and p53 pr protein level be dramatically increase and the development of aggressive tumor in virgin mouse be completely block by antiprogestins .
 in future study it will be important to define how negative regulation of cell proliferation in normal mec be somehow lift to allow progression of early lesion to malignant cancer and if early event include loss of checkpoint control or alteration of dna damage and repair pathway in cell .
 pr action in human breast cancer cell model .
 the biochemistry of pr action be well characterize have be largely define use human breast cancer cell line or pr-null cell into which wild-type or modify pr have be re-expressed .
 numerous study have focused on pr interaction with regulatory protein change in pr subcellular localization or post-translational modification of pr phosphorylation ubiquitinylation or sumoylation or other condition that affect pr transcriptional activity usually measure on artificial gene promoter reporter gene contain one or much tandem pre site .
 growth factor include egf or heregulin promote transcriptional synergy in the presence of progestin on pr-target gene .
 as discuss above phosphorylation event primarily serve to augment pr action in a promoter selective manner .
 despite this depth of basic understanding the detail of gene regulation and the associate change in cell biology in response to pr activation remain elusive .
 only a handful of endogenous progesterone-responsive gene have be describe in detail .
 the majority of gene regulate in response to progesterone lack pr-binding consensus sequence or progesterone responsive element pre and the presence of one or much pre or pre half-sites fail to accurately predict progesterone-responsive regulation .
 many gene be regulate upon pr expression but independently of progesterone .
 furthermore several gene be downregulated in response to progesterone pr-dependent transcriptional repression largely by unknown mechanism .
 in much case the regulation of specific gene in response to progesterone pr be only loosely tie by correlation to change in cell or tumor biology .
 for example many pr-regulated gene be associate with aspect of tumor progression towards aggressive tumor phenotype .
 in addition the pr-a to pr-b ratio be frequently alter away from in breast tumor relative to normal tissue a condition predict to dramatically alter the genetic program .
 confounding the role of progesterone in breast cancer be the find that progesterone have biphasic effect on the proliferation of breast cancer cell line grow in vitro cell grow in plastic culture dish supplement with progestin-containing medium .
 cultured cell line undergo an initial burst of proliferation characterize by increased s-phase entry that peak at 18 h of progesterone treatment .
 cell cycle progression be drive by successive upregulation of g1 s and g2 cyclin p21 and elevate cdk2 activity .
 this be follow 24 48 h one to three cell cycle later by cell growth inhibition in which p27 be upregulated and the cell ultimately arrest at the g1 s boundary .
 thus the response of cultured breast cancer cell to progesterone be both proliferative and inhibitory in contrast to the clear mitogenic effect of estrogen in the same cell line model .
 for this reason it have be suggest that progesterone act primarily as a prime agent with growth promote activity dependent upon cellular context and or the presence of secondary agent .
 for example progestin upregulate select component of growth factor-initiated signaling pathway include irs-2 and egfr family member and ligand progestin-treated breast cancer cell be much responsive to egf-induced proliferation than be progestin-nave cell .
 thus progesterone may act in part by sensitize breast cancer cell to growth factor and signal .
 of note be that progesterone treatment of breast cancer cell grow in culture have also be implicate in pro-survival resistance to chemotherapy-induced apoptosis and tumor cell differentiation from luminal to myoepithelial phenotype with minimal effect on tumor growth this transition be associate with poor clinical prognosis .
 similarly epithelial to mesenchymal transition emt be an early event that precede tumor cell invasion and metastasis and may occur independently of change in proliferation .
 during emt stationary epithelial cell become fibroblast-like and acquire the ability to migrate and invade locally .
 interestingly many progesterone-regulated gene encode molecule involve in signal transduction and cell adhesion to extracellular matrix ecm or other basement membrane component .
 irs-2 a pr-b-regulated gene be a mediator of increase cell motility .
 the effect of progestin have recently be evaluate in soft-agar a type of 3d culture system that allow breast cancer cell to grow as anchorage-independent colony much similar to the organization of acini find in vivo .
 in contrast to mono-layer culture progestin be clearly mitogenic in this system wherein pr-b induce transcriptional upregulation of wnt-1 lead to sustain mapk activity upregulation of cyclin d1 and the formation of abundant large colony .
 this suggest that the mitogenic action of progesterone require the establishment of cell polarity a property that be not support in 2d culture system .
 in addition to gain far insight into the role of what appear to be excessive cross talk between progesterone pr and signaling pathway component a clear definition of the specific action of progesterone pr that be relevant to much advance breast cancer cell biology tumor progression to metastasis include emt be need .
 this may require study condition that mimic or preserve breast epithelial cell architecture in which luminal epithelial cell be polarize and in contact with basement membrane component .
 in support of this concept normal mec respond differently to estrogen and progesterone when cultured in the presence of variable ecm component collagen type i fibronectin laminin ecm protein increase the expression of egf and igf receptor .
 in this context estrogen plus progestin inhibit egf igf-induced mec proliferation in an ecm-dependent manner .
 clearly er and pr interaction with ecm be complex .
 deregulation of ecm protein expression and or integrin signaling early event in cancer progression be likely to dramatically alter hormone responsiveness .
 future perspective .
 many aspect of pr action originally discover in animal or cell line model of breast cancer have not be establish in human .
 however a direct role for pr in breast cancer be illustrate by the clinical finding of the women 's health initiative whi and million women study demonstrate that woman take a progestin in combination with estrogen as part of hormone replacement therapy ept experience a great breast cancer risk relative to estrogen alone tumor be large and of high grade .
 the million women study also find that woman be much likely to die of breast cancer if they be take ept at the time of diagnosis .
 thus while substantial preclinical datum suggest an important role for pr function in modulate breast cancer biology validation of this finding be dependent on a clinical strategy to disrupt pr function in human breast cancer .
 it will then be important to decipher the contribution of both nuclear and membrane pr activity and target them appropriately with selective pr modulator in addition to targeting the relevant kinase c-src mapk and cdk2 require for steroid hormone receptor action .
 we suggest that pr activity be routinely targeted as part of combination therapy aim at block both er- and pr-b along with the associate essential protein kinase .
 acknowledgement .
 study on the role of progesterone and breast cancer be fund by nih nci grant to lange formerly dk53825 and r21 .
 we thank andrea daniel and douglas yee for helpful comment .
 however the specific effect of diabetes on blood brain barrier bbb remain controversial .
 study utilize the stz-induced model of diabetes to assess effect on the bbb have indicate that the physical barrier remain intact whereas recent study indicate that bbb permeability to some substance be increase in stz-induced diabetes .
 however there be some report that show contradictory outcome .
 explanation for this conflict result be that both barrier and transport component of the bbb function can be attributed to dysfunction of cerebral microvasculature .
 paracellular and transcellular permeability of the bbb be differentially regulate in diabetes .
 permeability to macromolecules and much small water-soluble molecule be limited through the paracellular pathway by epithelial-like tight junction and transcellular movement of lipid-soluble molecule and organic ion be highly regulate by numerous transporter include efflux transporter .
 the efflux transporter mainly belong to the abc superfamily include p-glycoprotein p-gp and breast cancer resistance protein bcrp .
 p-gp be first describe as a component of the acquire multidrug resistance mdr mechanism of tumor cell but it be now know to be present physiologically at the luminal membrane of the brain capillary endothelial cell .
 p-gp actively expel a wide spectrum of amphiphilic drug from brain into blood lead to a decrease in uptake by the brain .
 bcrp which be first call mxr and be now designate abcg2 on nomenclature confer resistance to many drug include mitoxantrone prazosin and some camptothecin derivative and range may overlap with the substrate of other p-gp and or multidrug resistance-associated protein mrps .
 bcrp abcg2 be identify in human and porcine brain capillary endothelial cell and find to be responsible for the in vitro export of daunorubicin from porcine brain capillary endothelial cell .
 that abcg2 be present in brain endothelial cell indicate that bcrp may influence the efflux of drug at the bbb .
 in vivo study on bcrp1 knockout mouse have show that abcg2 be involve in brain penetration of imatinib .
 a series of study show that some disease include diabetes mellitus affect expression and function of this efflux transporter result in change of bbb permeability .
 previous study show that expression and function of p-gp in brain of stz-induced diabetic rat be damage accompany by increase of brain penetration of substrate rhodamine 123 and vincristine without mark change of bbb integrity .
 similar down-regulation be also find in diabetic mouse induce by stz .
 in contrast expression and function of mrp-2 be find to be up-regulated in brain of diabetic rat induce by stz accompany by decrease of fluorescein brain penetration .
 bcrp be one of the important efflux transporter which restrict entrance of some substance into brain .
 however little be know about regulation of expression and function in diabetes mellitus .
 the purpose of this study be firstly to investigate whether dm change the bcrp function and expression in brain cortex of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat use western blot and two typical substrate prazosin and cimetidine both of which as typical substrate of bcrp be widely use to evaluate the bcrp function secondly to clarify whether agent treatment reverse the change of bcrp expression and function induce by dm thirdly to study which factor may contribute to change of function and expression of bcrp in brain cortex .
 material and .
 animal preparation .
 male sprague dawley rat g purchase from center of experimental animal china pharmaceutical university be use in the study and house under control room of humidity and temperature 23 1 c .
 the rat fast for 6 h prior to intraperitoneal injection of 65 mg kg stz dissolve in m sodium citrate buffer at ph following injection animal be return to cage maintain under standard 12 h dark condition and give food and water ad libitum for the remainder of the study .
 age-matched normal rat only receive the citrate buffer .
 development of diabetes be confirm by blood glucose analysis use reagent kit jiancheng biotech nanjing china .
 rats with serum glucose level high than mm be consider to be diabetic rat and include in the study .
 all animal experiment be perform under a license grant by jiangsu science and technology office china with approval from animal ethic committee of china pharmaceutical university .
 every effort be make to minimize stress to the animal .
 experimental protocol .
 the diabetic rat be randomly divide into 4 group .
 group i be serve as diabetic control model and receive only saline solution .
 group ii be serve as insulin treatment and subcutaneously inject 5 u kg of insulin twice a day .
 group iii be serve as metformin treatment and receive orally mg kg of metformin jiangsu suzhong pharmaceutical group twice a day .
 and group iv be serve as aminoguanidine an inhibitor of advance glycation end product treatment and orally receive mg kg of aminoguanidine hydrogen carbonate aldrich-chemie gmbh kg steinheim germany twice a day .
 the age-matched normal rat only receive saline solution .
 after a 5 week treatment some rat from each group be randomly choose for evaluation of the function and expression of bcrp in brain cortex .
 and rest of rat continue to be treat for another 3 week .
 distribution of prazosin and cimetidine .
 to elucidate the effect of dm on bcrp function at bbb two typical substrate of bcrp prazosin and cimetidine be give intravenously to experimental rat and normal rat .
 for prazosin at min after the injection 1 mg kg of prazosin hydrochloride national institute of control pharmaceutical and biological product beijing china the rat be sacrifice under light ether anesthesia and blood and brain sample be immediately collect for analysis .
 for cimetidine at min after the injection mg kg of cimetidine national institute of control pharmaceutical and biological product beijing china the rat be sacrifice under light ether anesthesia and blood and brain sample be immediately collect for analysis .
 blood sample be immediately centrifuged to yield plasma .
 cerebral cortex be obtain and weigh .
 all plasma and brain sample be store at c until analysis .
 the brain-to-plasma concentration ratio of prazonsin and cimetidine be calculate and serve as brain penetration of the drug .
 western blot analysis .
 rats be sacrifice under light ether anesthesia and the brain cortex be quickly remove .
 the brain cortex be homogenated and lysed in lysis buffer contain mm nacl sodium azide g ml pmsf mm tris hcl ph .
 the lysate be incubate on ice for min and centrifuged at g for 2 min at 4 the supernatant be collect and protein concentration be determine by use bradford assay bio-rad hercules usa protein assay reagent .
 after addition of sample loading buffer and 5 min at c denatured protein sample be electrophoresed on a sds-page and subsequently transfer to pvdf membrane roche .
 the membrane be incubate in fresh blocking buffer tween in tris-buffered saline ph contain nonfat dry milk at room temperature for min and then probe with the goat polyclonal anti-abcg2 antibody sc-25156 santa cruz usa in block buffer at 4 c overnight .
 after wash the membrane with pbst pbs and tween three time for 5 min each it be incubate in the appropriate hrp-conjugated donkey anti-goat secondary antibody at room temperature for another 1 h and wash again three time in pbst buffer .
 the transfer protein be incubate with ecl substrate solution cell signaling usa for 5 min accord to the manufacturer 's instruction and visualize with autoradiography x-film .
 all blot be strip and reprobed with polyclonal anti--actin antibody boshide biotech china to ascertain equal loading of protein .
 drug assay .
 the concentration of prazosin and cimetidine in plasma and brain cortex be measure by hplc .
 shimadzu system shimadzu japan and diamonsil c18 mm mm 5 m particle size column richmond hill on usa be select .
 for the determination of prazosin ml of plasma or 1 ml purify water contain g homogenize brain cortex be mix with l of terazosin solution ng ml and alkalized with ml of m sodium carbonate solution .
 after extraction with 5 ml dichlormethane ml of organic layer be transfer to a clean tube and evaporate to dryness under nitrogen gas stream at 45 the residue be reconstitute in ml of methanol and l of the sample be inject into hplc system .
 the mobile phase consist of m nah2po4 acetonitrile ph 5 at flow rate ml min .
 the concentration of prazosin be measure with a fluorescence detector set at an excitation wavelength of nm and an emission wavelength of nm .
 the low limit of quantitation of prazosin in brain cortex and plasma be ng g brain cortex and ng ml respectively .
 the concentration quantify use the area ratio of prazosin over the internal standard terazosin .
 the standard curve be linear over the concentration range of ng g brain cortex and ng ml plasma respectively .
 the recovery be high than and relative standard derivation of intraday and interday be low than .
 for the determination of cimetidine ml of plasma or 1ml purify water contain g homogenize brain cortex be mix with l of famotidine g ml internal standard and alkalized with ml of m sodium carbonate solution .
 after extraction with 5 ml ethyl acetate the mixture be then centrifuged at rpm min for min .
 ml of organic layer be collect and evaporate to dryness under a gentle stream of nitrogen gas at 45 the residue be reconstitute in ml of methanol .
 l of the sample be inject into hplc system which have a ultraviolet detector set at the wavelength of 228 nm .
 the hplc assay utilize a mobile phase of m nah2po4-acetonitrile v v contain triethylamine with ph of 6 and a flow rate of ml min .
 the low limit of quantitation of cimetidine in brain cortex and plasma be g g brain cortex and g ml respectively .
 the recovery be high than and relative standard derivation of intraday and interday be low than .
 the linear range of cimetidine in brain cortex and plasma be 33 g g brain cortex and g ml respectively .
 measurement of physiological and biochemical parameter .
 blood sample be take from orbital vein fast overnight and after centrifuged at rpm min for 5 min serum sample be obtain .
 the serum glucose level and the insulin level be measure use reagent kit and elisa kit jiancheng biotech respectively .
 the serum advance glycation end product ages be measure use method describe previously .
 in brief the fluorescence measurement of the fold saline dilute serum be perform in triplicate on spectrofluorometer shimadzu japan at an excitation wavelength of nm and emission wavelength of nm .
 the fluorescence intensity of sample be express as au mg protein .
 and protein be measure with protein assay kit jiancheng biotech .
 statistical analysis .
 result be express as mean standard deviation .
 the overall difference among group be determine by one-way of analysis of variance anova .
 if analysis be significant the difference between group be estimate use student newman keuls multiple comparison post hoc test .
 a p-value of little than indicate a significant difference .
 .
 physiological and biochemical parameter of experimental rat .
 the physiological parameter of body weight blood glucose level insulin level and serum ages level in 5 week and 8 week experimental rat be measure and list in table compared with aged-matched normal rat low level of insulin high level of blood glucose and ages be find p in serum of diabetic rat induce by stz accompany by low body weight .
 the treatment of insulin reverse this change of physiological and biochemical parameter in diabetic rat .
 metformin treatment only partly reverse this change of physiological and biochemical parameter in diabetic rat .
 aminoguanidine an inhibitor of advance glycation significantly decrease ages in serum of diabetic rat and have no effect on other physiological and biochemical parameter .
 table .
 biochemical parameter of the 5 week and 8 week rat .
 controldmdm insulindm agdm met week 5 body weight g serum glucose mmol l serum ages au mg protein serum insulin mu l .
 week 8 body weight g 28 serum glucose mmol l serum ages au mg protein serum insulin mu l .
 full-size table .
 dm diabetes mellitus ag aminoguanidine met metformin .
 each value represent the mean of 4 6 rat .
 p versus control .
 p versus diabetes .
 view within article .
 the brain distribution of prazosin and cimetidine .
 this experiment be design to investigate whether dm affect function of bcrp at brain use two typical substrate of bcrp prazosin and cimedine .
 since the brain concentration of prazosin and cimetidine be affect by plasma concentration the brain-to-plasma concentration ratio of prazosin and cimetidine be calculate and serve as brain penetration .
 significant p high brain-to-plasma concentration ratio of the two substrate in diabetic rat be find to be compare with normal rat .
 the brain-to-plasma concentration ratio of prazosin increase in 5 week diabetic rat and in 8 week diabetic rat compare with those of age-matched normal rat respectively .
 similarly brain-to-plasma concentration ratio of cimetidine increase in 5 week diabetic rat and in 8 week diabetic rat compare with those of age-matched normal rat respectively .
 it be report that the physical structure of bbb remain intact in diabetic rat induce by stz .
 the result indicate that the increase of brain-to-plasma ratio of both typical substrate may result from damage of bcrp function induce by dm .
 the impairment of bcrp function be dependent on duration of diabetes .
 table .
 effect of dm and drug treatment on distribution of prazosin in brain cortex of 5 week and 8 week rat .
 controldmdm insulindm agdm met week 5 plasma level ng ml brain level ng g brain cortex kp value ml g brain .
 week 8 plasma level ng ml brain level ng g brain cortex kp value ml g brain .
 full-size table .
 change in distribution of prazosin in brain cortex of stz-induced diabetic rat and drug treat diabetic rat .
 prazosin 1 mg kg be administer into 5 week and 8 week nontreated diabetic rat drug treat diabetic rat and age-matched control rat respectively .
 blood and whole brain cortex sample be collect and measure follow min after prazosin injection .
 the brain-to-plasma concentration ratio of prazosin be calculate .
 each value represent the mean of 4 6 rat .
 dm diabetes mellitus ag aminoguanidine met metformin kp brain-to-plasma ratio .
 p versus control .
 p versus diabetes .
 view within article .
 table .
 effect of dm and drug treatment on distribution of cimetidine in brain cortex of 5 week and 8 week rat .
 controldmdm insulindm metdm ag week 5 plasma level ug ml brain level ug g brain cortex kp value ml g brain .
 week 8 plasma level ug ml brain level ug g brain cortex kp value ml g brain .
 full-size table .
 change in distribution of cimetidine in brain cortex of stz-induced diabetic rat and drug treat diabetic rat .
 cimetidne mg kg be administer into 5 week and 8 week nontreated diabetic rat drug treat diabetic rat and age-matched normal rat respectively .
 blood and whole brain cortex sample be collect and measure follow min after cimetidine injection .
 the brain-to-plasma concentration ratio of cimetidine be calculate .
 each value represent the mean of 4-6 rat .
 dm diabetes mellitus ag aminoguanidine met metformin kp brain-to-plasma ratio .
 p versus control .
 p versus diabetes .
 view within article .
 in order to investigate whether drug treatment attenuate the impairment of bcrp function induce by dm the diabetic rat be treat with insulin metformin and aminoguanidine respectively .
 as show in table 2 and table 3 insulin treatment may attenuate the impairment of bcrp function in brain cortex of diabetic rat accompany by increase of serum insulin level and decrease of blood glucose level .
 metformin although significantly decrease glucose and ages level in serum do not show improvement on bcrp function follow 5 week and 8 week treatment .
 similarly aminoguanidine which be an inhibitor of advance glycation end product and significantly decrease ages level in serum do not reverse the decrease of bcrp function induce by diabetes .
 all result indicate that the impairment of bcrp may partly result from low insulin level not high ages or high glucose level .
 bcrp expression at brain cortex .
 this experiment be design to investigate whether dm affect the expression of bcrp in brain cortex .
 bcrp level in cerebral cortex be measure use western blot .
 the result reveal a band of 72 kda identify by bcrp antibody corresponding to bcrp .
 bcrp level in cerebral cortex of diabetic rat be significant p low than that in normal rat .
 the bcrp level in brain cortex of 5 week and 8 week diabetic rat be only and of bcrp level in corresponding age-matched control rat respectively .
 the result indicate that dm may down-regulate the expression of bcrp in brain cortex of stz-induced diabetic rat and that the impair expression of bcrp in bbb of diabetic rat be dependent on the duration of diabetes .
 full-size image 79k change of bcrp expression level in brain cortex of a and b represent western blot of bcrp in brain cortex of 5 week and 8 week rat respectively .
 ratio of relative staining intensity for bcrp of 5 week and 8 week rat be describe in c and d respectively .
 the datum represent the mean from three independent experiment .
 dm diabetes mellitus ag aminoguanidine met metformin p versus control versus diabetes .
 view within article .
 in order to investigate whether drug treatment attenuate the impairment of bcrp expression induce by dm the diabetic rat be treat with insulin metformin and aminoguanidine respectively .
 it be find that insulin reverse the decrease expression of bcrp in 5 week and 8 week diabetic rat .
 on the contrary aminoguanidine and metformin show no effect on restoration of bcrp expression in 5 week and 8 week diabetic rat .
 discussion .
 the present study be first design to explore whether dm affect the bcrp function and expression in brain cortex of stz-induced diabetic rat use typical substrate prazosin and cimetidine and western blot analysis .
 lower level of bcrp in brain cortex of diabetic rat be parallel with increase of brain-to-plasma ratio of prazosin and cimetidine .
 prazosin as a typical substrate of bcrp be widely use to evaluate the bcrp function .
 cimetidine be initially recognize as an inhibitor of organic cation transporter recently many report also identify cimetidine as a novel efficiently transport substrate for murine bcrp .
 as the brain concentration of drug be affect by the plasma concentration the brain-to-plasma ratio be use in this study .
 though it be note that the concentration of cimetidine and prazosin in the cerebral cortex and plasma of diabetic rat be low than those of age-matched control rat we have identify high brain-to-plasma ratio of prazosin and cimetidine in diabetic rat compare to age-matched control rat .
 the previous study show that dm do not destroy the integrity of bbb in murine and human with diabetes and that the tight interendothelial junction do not appear to be alter .
 the previous study also show that there be no significant difference in the brain cortex concentration of evans blue in the diabetic rat and age-matched control rat and the histopathological examination show no mark change in the apical membrane of the brain microvessel endothelium under the same experimental condition .
 this result suggest that the increase brain-to-plasma ratio of prazosin and cimetidine in brain cortex may result from impairment of bcrp in brain neither the impairment of bbb integrity nor the damage brain microvessel endothelium induce by dm .
 cimetidine and prazosin be report to undergo significant metabolism in male rat via handful of cyps in liver .
 the induction of hepatic cyp3a cyp1a and cyp2b be recognize in experimental diabetes which may partly contribute to the decrease of cimetidine and prazosin plasma concentration .
 to further investigate whether the decrease bcrp function in brain cortex of diabetic rat be due to the alter expression of bcrp western blot be accomplish with protein extract from brain cortex .
 this study have confirm that bcrp expression be significantly decrease in cerebral cortex of the 5 week and 8 week diabetic rat compare with that of age-matched control rat respectively .
 the result be correspondent with the impairment of bcrp function .
 the result above clearly demonstrate that dm increase the brain-to-plasma ratio of cimetidine and prazosin via impair the expression and function of bcrp in brain .
 lower level of insulin high level of ages and high level of blood glucose be significant feature of dm .
 in order to investigate whether this factor impair bcrp function and expression in brain cortex diabetic rat be treat with aminoguanidine metformin and insulin respectively .
 the previous study show that age-bsa decrease abcg1 protein level and ages impair the expression of organic cation transporter in kidney of experimental dm .
 however it be find that treatment of aminoguanidine reduce serum ages level but do not improve the impair bcrp function and expression in diabetic rat .
 although metformin modify the high blood glucose and ages level treatment of metformin still do not improve the function and expression of bcrp in diabetic rat .
 all the result indicate that both high level of ages and blood glucose may play a minor role in regulate bcrp function and expression in brain .
 treatment of insulin reverse the impair expression and function of bcrp in brain cortex associate with normalize level of insulin serum ages and blood glucose in serum of diabetic rat .
 consider the poor effect of high blood glucose and ages on regulate bcrp expression and function we deduce that the low insulin level as an important influential factor be associate with the impairment .
 in conclusion experiment confirm that function and expression of bcrp in brain cortex of stz-induced diabetic rat be impair .
 lower level of insulin may contribute to the pathophysiological mechanism of dm-related brain cortex bcrp dysfunction and ages and hyperglycemia may play minor role in this alteration .
 acknowledgement .
 traditional indication for pmrt have include tumor 5 cm and four or much involve axillary lymph node 1 and 2 .
 however the number of patient receive this treatment be grow as new datum suggest both a local control and survival advantage in patient with even one positive axillary lymph node 3 .
 at the same time many woman wish to pursue breast reconstruction whether or not they will undergo pmrt .
 because the need for pmrt be determine by the pathologic stage of disease role in a patient 's management be often not know before definitive surgery and the decision to proceed with immediate reconstruction may therefore be make before this information be available .
 the integration of pmrt into the overall management of patient who proceed with immediate reconstruction pose a treatment dilemma and be not well study .
 in the an empiric algorithm be develop at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center to manage patient who be determine to need pmrt after have undergo immediate breast reconstruction with an expander-implant e-i technique .
 figure 1 depict the algorithm .
 the treatment begin with definitive surgery consist of mastectomy axillary lymph node dissection alnd and placement of a subpectoral tissue expander te .
 tissue expansion then occur during a period of adjuvant chemotherapy .
 after completion of chemotherapy the patient be take back to the operate room for exchange of the te for a permanent implant .
 finally radiation be deliver to the chest wall and supraclavicular fossa .
 full-size image 11k memorial sloan-kettering algorithm for integration of post-mastectomy radiation with immediate expander-implant reconstruction .
 alnd axillary lymph node dissection .
 view within article .
 radiotherapy to the immediately reconstructed breast in particular use an e-i technique remain highly controversial .
 criticism of the technique have focused on three major concern potential for inferior cosmetic outcome and increase complication rate compromise radiation design and the risk of inferior disease control due to delay in initiation of radiation .
 the first two of this concern have be previously examine 4 5 and 6 .
 however the issue of the timing of radiation in reconstructive algorithm and the resultant disease control be poorly study and be the focus of this article .
 the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center treatment algorithm incorporate a delay between the completion of chemotherapy and the initiation of radiation to allow for exchange of the te for the permanent implant .
 the first aim of study be to determine the actual interval between the component of treatment in patient treat under algorithm to assess the actual length of the incorporate delay in clinical practice .
 the second aim be to evaluate local regional and distant disease control as well as overall survival in patient who be treat under the algorithm to assess whether clinical outcome seem to be acceptable in this group of patient .
 method and material .
 after obtain institutional review board approval for the study we retrospectively review the chart of all patient who initiate treatment at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center accord to the algorithm depict in patient who undergo definitive surgery between 1996 and december be include in the initial review .
 only patient who receive all component of treatment at institution and who complete the entire treatment algorithm be include in the analysis .
 data be collect regard patient characteristic disease characteristic treatment detail and treatment outcome .
 patient be stage accord to the american joint committee on cancer 6th edition category .
 all patient undergo total mastectomy tm of the affect breast and ipsilateral alnd .
 in some case patient undergo one or much lumpectomy before tm and some have alnd at the time of a prior lumpectomy .
 in all patient at the time of tm a subpectoral te be place by a plastic surgeon .
 one to two week after surgery tissue expansion be begin under the care of the plastic surgeon and 4 6 week after the surgery adjuvant chemotherapy be initiate under the care of the medical oncologist .
 the length of this period depended on the chemotherapy regimen select .
 approximately 4 week after completion of chemotherapy patient be take back to the operate room for exchange of the te for a permanent silicone or saline implant .
 approximately 4 week after this exchange patient initiate radiation .
 we gather information by chart review on patient treatment include surgery chemotherapy and radiation regimen .
 we examine the time interval between the component of treatment .
 we examine clinical outcome include local regional and distant disease control as well as survival .
 clinical outcome be evaluate by physical examination as well as imaging .
 posttreatment imaging include ct scan and contralateral mammogram if applicable .
 tumor marker be follow at the discretion of the medical oncologist .
 all failure be document by tissue biopsy .
 we perform univariate analysis of the follow factor with the outcome of distant metastasis and survival age 45 year 45 year t stage n stage extranodal extension tumor histology invasive ductal other right-sided left-sided disease presence of vascular invasion presence of perineural invasion margin status chest wall involvement estrogen receptor er status progesterone receptor pr status chemotherapy regimen adjuvant chemotherapy based other use of hormone therapy and interval between chemotherapy and radiation 8 week 8 week .
 survival time be define as the time from mastectomy to the date of death or last follow-up .
 local control be define as the time from mastectomy to the date of local failure or last follow-up .
 distant metastasis-free survival time be define as the time from mastectomy to the date of distant metastasis or last follow-up .
 the survival curve be estimate use kaplan-meier survival methodology .
 kaplan-meier estimate of survival time in various group be compare use the log rank test .
 result .
 between 1996 and december 3578 mastectomy be perform at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center .
 of this include immediate reconstruction 1346 with te placement 112 with transverse rectus abdominus myocutaneous tram flap and 48 with latissimus dorsi flap .
 a total of 192 patient who have undergo immediate te placement be deem to require pmrt and initiate treatment accord to the algorithm describe in eighty-eight patient undergo definitive surgery at institution but receive either the chemotherapy or radiotherapy component of treatment at an outside institution .
 the remain patient receive all component of treatment at institution and constitute study group all finish treatment by march .
 patient be select for treatment under the algorithm by team of treat physician there be no specific inclusion or exclusion criterion for the algorithm other than be deem suitable for the treatment procedure .
 table 1 and table 2 summarize disease characteristic .
 median patient age at time of diagnosis be 45 year range 27 72 year .
 there be no case of inflammatory breast cancer .
 no patient be treat with neoadjuvant chemotherapy .
 all patient undergo tm and alnd .
 her-2-neu status be evaluate by immunohistochemistry in 84 patient and be increase staining in 25 of this case .
 her-2-neu be evaluate by fluorescent in situ hybridization in 48 patient and be amplify in 6 of this case .
 the median number of lymph node dissect be 25 range 4 .
 table .
 tumor characteristic .
 characteristicn left-sided tumor49 47 invasive ductal histology71 68 invasive lobular histology18 17 mixed or other histology15 15 vascular invasion present61 59 perineural invasion direct skin invasion present8 8 chest wall invasion present1 1 positive surgical margin17 16 estrogen receptor 77 progesterone receptor positive57 55 extranodal extension present42 multifocal or multicentric32 31 full-size table .
 view within article .
 table .
 patient stage .
 stagen ii27 26 iia8 8 t1n18 iib19 18 t2n117 iii77 74 iiia42 t1n27 t2n222 t3n15 t3n28 iiib6 6 t4n13 t4n22 iiic29 28 t1n34 t2n317 t3n36 t4n32 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 adjuvant chemotherapy be administer to all patient .
 the chemotherapy be doxorubicin paclitaxel-based in 88 patient fluorouracil cyclophosphamide-based in 11 patient and cyclophosphamide fluorouracil-based in 5 patient .
 three patient receive trastuzumab 2 of whom be her-2-neu positive by fluorescent in situ hybridization and 1 of whom be positive by immunohistochemistry .
 after chemotherapy 81 patient receive hormone therapy .
 twenty-five patient receive tamoxifen alone 7 receive aromatase inhibitor alone and 49 receive a sequence of tamoxifen and then an aromatase inhibitor .
 of the patient who be er positive 79 receive hormone therapy and of the 24 patient who be er negative 2 receive hormone therapy as chemoprevention .
 adjuvant radiation be deliver to all patient .
 the indication for radiation be t3 t4 and n2 n3 disease in 79 patient extranodal extension in 11 patient large tumor 5 cm on pathology in 8 patient gross multifocality or multicentricity in 3 patient positive margin in 2 patient and two lymph node involve without another adverse pathologic feature in 1 patient who be treat because of a strong preference for comprehensive therapy .
 radiation be deliver to the chest wall with tangent photon beam use three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy .
 all patient but one receive radiation to the supraclavicular fossa with an anterior oblique photon beam .
 the internal mammary node imn be not specifically targeted with an additional electron field in any patient .
 ten patient receive a posterior axillary boost photon field .
 median radiation dose to all field be cgy range cgy in fraction of to cgy .
 one patient receive a electron scar boost the remain patient do not have the scar boost .
 a cm bolus be use daily over the chest wall in all patient .
 five patient terminate treatment early because of skin desquamation but all patient receive a minimum of cgy to the chest wall and 3 patient complete chest wall treatment without the bolus for the last 2 to 3 fraction because of desquamation .
 the interval between the component of the treatment algorithm be also evaluate .
 this interval be depict in the median interval between definitive surgery and initiation of chemotherapy be 5 week range 1 12 week .
 the median duration of chemotherapy be 5 month range 2 9 month .
 the median interval between completion of chemotherapy and exchange of the te for the permanent implant be 4 week range 2 13 week .
 the median interval from the exchange to initiation of radiation be 4 week range 1 11 week .
 the median total interval between completion of chemotherapy and initiation of radiation be 8 week range 4 16 week .
 the median interval from mastectomy to initiation of radiation be 8 month range 5 14 month .
 full-size image 13k median treatment interval in patient treat under the memorial sloan-kettering algorithm for integration of postmastectomy radiation with immediate expander-implant reconstruction .
 alnd axillary lymph node dissection rt radiotherapy .
 view within article .
 median follow-up from the date of definitive surgery be 64 month range 11 122 month and median follow-up from completion of radiotherapy be 55 month range 3 114 month .
 follow-up be perform at interval of every 3 month to annually depending on the length of time since treatment .
 seven patient be lose to follow-up with much than 12 month since last follow-up visit .
 the median follow-up in those lose to follow-up be 37 month range 18 99 month .
 all follow-up visit whether perform by radiation oncologist medical oncologist or surgeon include physical examination of the chest wall and regional lymph node .
 follow-up also include ct scanning contralateral mammogram if applicable and serum tumor marker at the discretion of the treat physician .
 no case of local or regional failure be detect result in a locoregional disease control rate of .
 twenty patient have chest wall skin biopsy for suspect local recurrence but all of this be negative .
 fifteen patient develop biopsy-proven distant metastases and the 5 year distant metastasis-free survival rate be confidence interval ci 83 when distant metastasis-free survival be consider from date of completion of radiation the 5 year rate be ci 78 .
 at last follow-up 2 patient be note to have rise tumor marker but have no radiographic evidence of disease recurrence .
 five patient die and the 5 year overall survival rate be ci 92 .
 four of this patient die from metastatic breast cancer and 1 die of an unknown cause .
 figure 3 depict kaplan-meyer curve for locoregional control distant metastasis-free survival and overall survival .
 seven patient be diagnose with contralateral breast cancer either synchronously or subsequent to treatment for the index cancer .
 three patient develop subsequent non-breast cancer 1 a contralateral stage ia lung cancer 1 a localized melanoma of the heel and 1 a carcinoma in situ of the cervix .
 seven patient undergo prophylactic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy after treatment and 12 patient undergo contralateral prophylactic mastectomy either at the time of the original mastectomy or after treatment .
 full-size image 28k kaplan-meyer curve demonstrate locoregional control distant metastasis-free survival and overall survival probability in patient treat under the algorithm .
 median follow-up from time of mastectomy be 64 month .
 view within article .
 there be no statistically significant association between distant metastasis-free survival and the follow patient tumor and treatment characteristic age 45 year 45 year t stage n stage extranodal extension tumor histology invasive ductal other presence of vascular invasion presence of perineural invasion margin status chest wall involvement pr status chemotherapy regimen adjuvant chemotherapy based other use of hormone therapy or interval between chemotherapy and radiation 8 week 8 week .
 negative er status p and cancer in the right breast the leave breast p be significantly associate with a poorer distant metastasis-free survival outcome .
 discussion .
 postmastectomy radiation have traditionally be deliver to breast cancer patient with tumor 5 cm or four or much involve axillary lymph node 1 and 2 .
 however the pathologic stage of disease in particular the nodal staging be often difficult to predict before definitive surgery .
 the need for pmrt then may not be know at the time of surgery however the decision regard immediate reconstruction must be make before surgery .
 there have traditionally be a bias against the use of pmrt in patient who undergo immediate reconstruction and patient who be know to need pmrt before the time of surgery be discourage from proceeding with immediate reconstruction .
 the treatment of patient who be discover to require pmrt after surgery pose a management dilemma .
 the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center treatment algorithm be develop as a mean of manage this patient who be identify as need pmrt only after surgery .
 however with much recent datum suggest a survival advantage for pmrt in patient with only one to three positive lymph node 3 7 8 and 9 the use of pmrt have also become much common .
 many woman also opt for reconstruction for psychosocial reason .
 thus the use of pmrt in the setting of reconstruction have become much prevalent and the ability to safely integrate pmrt into the reconstructive algorithm have become much important .
 there be a number of reconstructive option for patient who undergo mastectomy for breast cancer .
 the two general category of reconstructive technique be autologous tissue reconstruction and implant reconstruction .
 autologous reconstruction much commonly involve the placement of a pedicled or free tram flap over the chest wall .
 with this technique the breast mound be reconstructed use tissue from the low abdomen include the skin subcutaneous fat and rectus abdominus muscle .
 the procedure be lengthy be associate with significant morbidity and require a long healing period .
 some patient be not able to undergo this type of reconstruction because of comorbid condition such as obesity diabetes prior surgery or radiation or collagen vascular disease .
 smoking be consider a relative contraindication to this type of reconstruction .
 also thin woman may not have enough tissue for autologous reconstruction .
 therefore many woman be not eligible for autologous reconstruction or elect not to have the procedure because of morbidity .
 implant reconstruction on the other hand involve the placement of a permanent implant under the pectoralis muscle .
 this technique require little operative time and be tolerate in a great percentage of woman no donor site be require .
 the reconstruction be generally perform in two stage the initial placement of a te which be incrementally expand with saline over a period of time follow by exchange of the te for a permanent implant .
 both reconstructive technique can be perform on an immediate or delay basis .
 immediate reconstruction be perform at the time of mastectomy whereas delay reconstruction be perform in a separate surgical procedure after complete healing from the mastectomy occur .
 there be several disadvantage to immediate reconstruction .
 first the final pathology be not know at the time of the procedure and the role of future radiation may be unknown .
 second both implant and autologous tissue technique prolong and therefore increase the risk of the surgery .
 however many woman prefer not to delay reconstruction for psychosocial reason .
 delayed reconstruction also necessitate an additional surgical procedure and consequent risk .
 furthermore tissue expansion of an irradiate mastectomy wound be not usually possible limit the feasibility of e-i reconstruction when perform on a delay basis .
 the integration of radiation with any of this technique be complex and controversial american society of clinical oncology guideline conclude that there be insufficient evidence to make recommendation with respect to integration of pmrt and reconstruction 2 .
 before discuss the implication of study it be pertinent to review the principal objection to pmrt in the setting of immediate reconstruction and the controversy surround it .
 the primary concern express regard any treatment that incorporate breast reconstruction with pmrt relate to increased complication rate and poor cosmesis .
 there be great debate as to whether autologous or implant reconstruction result in the good outcome .
 some have conclude that tram reconstruction before radiation be contraindicate one study report an late complication rate in patient treat with tram reconstruction follow by radiation .
 other believe that e-i reconstruction be inferior to tram when combine with radiation a retrospective review of 48 patient who have reconstruction either before or after radiation report a significantly increase complication rate with e-i reconstruction as compare with tram reconstruction 5 .
 another study report grade 3 to 4 capsular contracture in 6 of 6 patient undergo radiation with implant and conclude that adjuvant radiotherapy be a contraindication to immediate implant reconstruction from an aesthetic point of view 11 .
 however another study of 85 patient who have pmrt either before or after reconstruction have show an equal rate of major complication with tram or e-i reconstruction and conclude that pmrt can be consider in all eligible patient in the setting of either type of reconstruction 12 .
 a study of 19 irradiate patient who be reconstructed with the e-i technique examine rate of complication as well as patient satisfaction with the outcome and show comparable patient assessment of cosmetic outcome in woman treat with e-i reconstruction with or without radiation though there be a high rate of complication in irradiate patient 13 .
 this series be limited by small patient number and heterogeneous population .
 despite the fact that several article conclude that the integration of prmt and reconstruction be feasible there be a wide range of conclusion draw in the different study and some feel that immediate reconstruction be contraindicate in patient who may need pmrt 14 .
 in addition to cosmetic concern some study have raise the concern that irradiation of the immediately reconstructed breast result in inferior quality of radiation 6 and 15 .
 this study show that the majority of radiation plan be unsatisfactory in term of provide broad coverage of the chest wall and imn while adequately spare heart and lung .
 the need to treat the imn be controversial irradiation of the imn have not be show to confer a benefit in survival or rate of distant metastasis 16 and 17 .
 there be no datum to suggest that radiation plan be compromise in case in which the imn be not targeted .
 finally the timing of the integration of pmrt into reconstructive algorithm be not well study and there be concern that delay in the initiation of radiation result in inferior disease control .
 there be conflict datum regard the significance of a delay in the initiation of radiotherapy in the setting of adjuvant chemotherapy after mastectomy some study report no increase in the local failure rate if radiation be delay in favor of deliver adjuvant chemotherapy 18 and 19 whereas a meta-analysis do show an increase odd ratio for mortality if radiation be delay much than 6 month from the start of chemotherapy .
 in the setting of breast-conservation therapy a delay of 8 to 12 week between surgery and the start of radiation in the absence of chemotherapy be acceptable 21 22 and 23 .
 there be no datum that we be aware of to suggest an appropriate delay between chemotherapy and radiation in the setting of mastectomy and reconstruction .
 one study report similar rate of local failure and distant metastasis in patient treat with pmrt with and without immediate implant reconstruction at a mean follow-up of 72 month but the interval between component of treatment be not describe 24 .
 another study report no significant difference in the incidence of local failure or distant metastasis in patient undergo pmrt after immediate tram reconstruction compare with those who do not undergo reconstruction 25 .
 the interval from surgery to radiation in this study be similar whether or not reconstruction be perform and be approximately 6 month .
 one algorithm that have be propose to address the issue describe above be delayed-immediate reconstruction 26 and 27 .
 with this approach patient undergo skin-sparing mastectomy with placement of a fully expand te .
 after final pathology be available the patient may undergo reconstruction with autologous tissue or a permanent implant if radiation be not indicate .
 if radiation be indicate the te be deflate radiation be deliver and the expander be subsequently re-expanded .
 a final autologous reconstruction be then perform .
 there be limited datum on outcome use this treatment approach with very few report patient have be treat with pmrt under this algorithm 26 .
 a downside of delayed-immediate reconstruction be the need for the patient who will not receive pmrt to undergo two operation require general anesthesia in close succession .
 if a patient do require pmrt the algorithm involve irradiation of the te rather than a permanent implant .
 although irradiation of the te be feasible it be not ideal because the magnetic component of the port interfere with radiation delivery 28 .
 the other potential problem with this approach be the fact that tissue expansion after radiation be fraught with complication .
 the formation of an expander capsule after mastectomy and before radiation may allow for re-expansion but the datum on this be also limited .
 one potential advantage of the delayed-immediate algorithm in patient who receive adjuvant chemotherapy be that it likely result in a short time interval between completion of chemotherapy and initiation of radiation we be not aware of any study specifically report this time interval .
 the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center algorithm be an alternative approach to delayed-immediate reconstruction that also address the concern raise regard the integration of pmrt into the reconstructive algorithm use e-i reconstruction rather than autologous tissue reconstruction .
 this algorithm be much widely applicable because much woman be eligible for e-i reconstruction than autologous reconstruction .
 it be a much streamlined approach with fewer invasive procedure .
 we believe that experience with this treatment algorithm be sufficient to allay the concern raise regard the use of pmrt in the setting of immediate reconstruction .
 although some center have report inferior cosmetic outcome with radiation to the immediately reconstructed breast with the e-i technique institution have publish datum on cosmetic outcome and complication in a large series of 81 patient treat under algorithm .
 many of this patient be also represent in the present study although there be not complete overlap patient who receive radiation at outside institution be include in the study address cosmesis but not in this study .
 the patient in that study demonstrate good to excellent aesthetic result in of case with develop grade 2 to 3 or moderate capsular contracture and develop grade 4 or severe capsular contracture 29 .
 seventy-two percent of patient report that they would choose the same form of reconstruction again .
 this series include a large number of patient and a much homogeneous population than other publish series .
 we believe that one of the reason for the acceptable outcome report from institution be the surgical technique use the implant be completely cover by musculofascial tissue at center and additional reconstruction may be perform at the time of exchange to improve cosmesis .
 much recent datum from institution continue to support the timing of radiation after immediate e-i reconstruction in term of both short-term and long-term complication and aesthetic outcome .
 a prospective study of 12 patient who undergo bilateral immediate e-i reconstruction and unilateral pmrt compare outcome in the two breast use the nonirradiated breast as a control .
 in this group no discernible difference be identify between the two breast in grade of contracture be increase by one grade on the modify baker scale in and increase by 2 grade in .
 finally datum from a single surgeon 's experience with e-i reconstruction at institution address early complication 31 and long-term complication 32 have be publish .
 the majority of patient in this study do not receive radiation but they also include a small number of patient who receive radiation before or after reconstruction .
 early complication examine include skin flap necrosis infection hematoma delay wound healing seroma fail expansion and expander deflation and late complication examine include capsular contracture ripple and implant loss .
 an increase in early complication rate be note in patient who undergo chest wall radiation before reconstruction but not after .
 there be no increase in early complication in patient who receive chemotherapy during tissue expansion .
 in term of long-term outcome there be an increase in the incidence of capsular contracture in patient who receive postexchange radiation and a decrease in overall aesthetic score .
 this difference be consider acceptable and successful outcome be achievable in patient receive radiation before or after e-i reconstruction .
 none of this publication from institution have report oncologic outcome but have instead focused exclusively on cosmetic outcome and complication .
 the issue of radiation design in the setting of immediate reconstruction be centered around the need to include the imn in the target it be practice to specifically target the imn only in case with radiographic evidence of imn involvement or in case when there be a high index of suspicion for involvement .
 this be accomplish with either an additional electron field targeting the imn or with deep tangent cover the superior aspect of the radiation field .
 each of the two technique use at institution to treat the imn in pmrt case be design to spare normal heart and lung tissue .
 we target the imn in approximately 3 of pmrt patient .
 although none of the patient in study have the imn targeted with an electron field it be possible that in some case deeper tangent field be select to cover the imn but that this be not record in the treatment summary .
 when the imn be not targeted there be minimal difficulty in targeting the chest wall while spare normal tissue .
 the final concern with respect to irradiation of the immediately reconstructed breast be how to time pmrt in the treatment sequence .
 the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center algorithm result in an 8 week interval between completion of chemotherapy and initiation of radiotherapy to allow for exchange of the te for the permanent implant and for healing from this surgical procedure .
 this be the first study that we be aware of to specifically examine disease control and time interval in patient receive pmrt after immediate reconstruction .
 with a median 8 week interval from chemotherapy to radiation disease control rate be acceptable accord to all parameter include local and regional control distant control and survival .
 disease control rate compare favorably with historical control report rate of local failure in patient treat with pmrt range from to depending on the extent of disease menopausal status and length of follow-up among other factor 3 7 8 9 33 34 and 35 .
 excellent control rate suggest that the 8 week delay between chemotherapy and radiation and the 8 month delay from surgery to radiation in the setting of adjuvant chemotherapy do not have a detrimental effect on local disease control .
 in combination with previously report acceptable cosmetic outcome we believe that immediate breast reconstruction after mastectomy use an e-i technique be acceptable when sequenced accord to algorithm .
 the association between er-negative status and increase rate of distant metastasis be concordant with expect outcome .
 we explain the increase rate of distant metastasis in patient with right-sided disease and this likely represent a statistical anomaly based on small number .
 this study be limited by the possibility of selection bias relatively small patient number and short median follow-up .
 although the majority of local failure will occur in the first 5 year after treatment 3 distant failure may occur later and patient in study remain at risk for both locoregional and distant failure .
 women who be think to have a poor prognosis due to locally advance disease detect before surgery may have be counseled against immediate reconstruction or to undergo neoadjuvant chemotherapy introduce a bias in study toward patient with much favorable prognosis .
 finally it be possible that patient with metastatic disease do not receive as diligent surveillance for local failure as those who remain disease free it be therefore possible that some local failure do occur but be not document in the group of patient who fail distantly .
 we also acknowledge that the lack of a control group in study preclude comparison of patient outcome with those of patient who do not undergo immediate reconstruction .
 despite this limitation this report represent important evidence that algorithm can be use as a basis for provide much woman the opportunity to elect for immediate reconstruction even in the setting of pmrt .
 conclusion .
 mastectomy with immediate e-i reconstruction adjuvant chemotherapy and radiation deliver accord to the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center algorithm result in a median interval of 8 week from completion of chemotherapy to initiation of radiotherapy .
 the treatment algorithm result in acceptable local and regional control distant metastasis-free survival and overall survival at 5 year .
 the majority of t-aml result from the use of alkylating agent or dna topoisomerase ii inhibitor .
 alkylating agent relate aml often occur after an average interval of 5 7 year be proceded by myelodysplastic syndrome be frequently describe as m1 or m2 and be associate with abnormality of chromosome 5 and alternatively t-aml result from dna topoisomerase ii inhibitor treatment appear frequently as m4 or m5 after a short interval and be associate with translocation of chromosome 11 11q23 and 21 21q22 .
 less often be associate with inv 16 t and t .
 chromosomal translocation t that result in mll gene rearrangement be often associate with the diagnosis of t-aml after treatment with a topoisomerase ii inhibitor .
 the survival of this patient be generally poor .
 the 12p13 region be genetically unstable and fragile with subsequent translocation and insertion into other chromosome .
 it have be report that multiple chromosome break in this region be likely to be induce through chemo radiotherapy or mutagen and be associate with a subgroup of patient with an extremely bad prognosis .
 the etv6 previously tel gene at 12p13 a transcription factor of the e-26 transform specific family that be essential for establish definitive hematopoiesis in the bone marrow have be find to be rearrange in some of this case .
 several of this rearrangement result in a fusion of the etv6 gene with much than different partner include abl mds1 cbfb mn1 jak2 stl and pdgfrb .
 it have also be report that in cell harboring translocation with the etv6 gene the nonrearranged etv6 allele be often delete or inactivate .
 the clinical consequence of etv6 loss of function in aml however have not be define yet .
 although the 12p13 region be genetically unstable with subsequent translocation into other chromosome t be a rare cytogenetic abnormality report in only seven leukemia case .
 to the good of knowledge the t have never be detect in treatment-induced acute leukemia .
 thus the datum regard the clinical course and outcome of this patient be limited .
 we report here on a case of t-aml after breast cancer chemo radiotherapy with a rare reciprocal t as a secondary cytogenetic abnormality in addition to the t in which the translocated etv6 gene be find to be disrupt .
 case report .
 in june a 42-year-old woman be diagnose with leave breast cancer and she undergo wide local excision with sentinel lymph node dissection .
 she receive adjuvant chemotherapy consist of two cycle of epirubicin and taxole and four cycle of 5 fluorouracil epirubicin and cyclophosphamide as well as local radiation therapy total dose 47gy .
 hormonal maintenance treatment with tamoxifene be follow .
 four year later on december 27 she be admit for investigation of pancytopenia .
 a full peripheral blood cell count show a white blood cell wbc count of l with neutrophil lymphocyte and monocyte platelet l hemoglobin dl hematocrit mean corpuscular volume fl and mean corpuscular hemoglobin 33 pg .
 a routine biochemistry screen reveal an elevate lactate dehydrogenase of 551 iu normal range iu .
 clinically the absence of both hepatosplenomegaly and palpable lymph node be note .
 a bone marrow aspirate show an infiltration of medium- to large-sized blast that consist of all nucleated cell and have a morphology suggestive of a myeloid origin as well as trilineage dysplasia that be present in little than of the cell in all three line .
 immunophenotypic analysis by flow cytometry demonstrate positivity of cd13 cd33 cd34 cd117 mpo and hla-dr consistent with acute myeloid leukaemia m2 aml-m2 .
 chromosome analysis of bone marrow cell show .
 induction chemotherapy with cytarabine idarubicin and cytarabine be administer and a complete remission be achieve .
 the patient undergo three course of consolidation therapy .
 the first course consist of cytarabine and idarubicin the second course consist of cytarabine and etoposide and the third course consist of cytarabine .
 eight month later in october she relapse with the same morphologic and immunophenotypic finding .
 a new cytogenetic analysis show .
 salvage chemotherapy consist of mitoxandrone etoposide and cytarabine be administer .
 thirty-two day later peripheral blood cell count show wbc l with neutrophil lymphocyte monocyte and eosinophils .
 a new bone marrow aspirate be consistent with morphologic remission blast and mark trilineage dysplasia .
 due to the fact that it have be impossible to identify a suitable donor in the international donor pool a haploidentical allogeneic bone marrow transplant from the patient 's sister have be schedule .
 unfortunately bone marrow transplantation be postpone because the patient have be in continuous relapse for the last 4 month .
 material and .
 chromosome study .
 chromosome study be perform on unstimulated bone marrow cell that have be cultured for 24 and 48 hour .
 cytogenetic analysis be perform on trypsin g band chromosome preparation and imaging and karyotyping be perform with microscopy and computer imaging technique in at least metaphase cell each time .
 karyotype be describe accord to the international system for human cytogenetic nomenclature iscn .
 fluorescence in situ hybridization fish fish study be perform on bone marrow cytogenetic specimen .
 the follow specific dna probe be use lsi mll dual-color break-apart rearrangement probe lsi tel aml1 es dual-color translocation probe lsi etv6 tel 12p13 dual-color break-apart rearrangement probe lsi chop 12q13 dual-color break-apart rearrangement probe abbott molecular vysis de plain il and chromosome 1 19 -satellite probe cytocell cambridge uk .
 dual-color fish image be digitally generate use isis fish imaging software metasystems altlussheim germany .
 .
 cytogenetic result .
 chromosomal analysis of bone marrow cell at diagnosis show an abnormal clone contain a reciprocal translocation between the long arm of chromosome 11 and the short arm of chromosome 19 with breakpoint at q23 and respectively in 23 metaphase cell evaluate .
 the karyotype be thus describe as .
 while the patient be in relapse new cytogenetic analysis of the bone marrow reveal two abnormal clone .
 the first clone be the one detect at diagnosis in 5 metaphase evaluate .
 the evolutionary clone carry an additional reciprocal translocation between the short arm of chromosome 12 and the long arm of the other homologue 12 with breakpoint at p13 and q13 respectively detect in 15 metaphase cell evaluate .
 the karyotype be describe as .
 full-size image 24k g-banded bone marrow karyogram show .
 view within article .
 fish .
 the mll probe show a split signal in of interphase nucleus analyzed while metaphase fish analysis reveal that the 3 primer of one mll gene be translocated to the der 19 confirm the reciprocal exchange between chromosome 11q and 19p .
 the tel aml1 probe for the etv6 runx1 gene show a normal pattern of hybridization in interphase nucleus but metaphase analysis detect both signal corresponding to the two allele of the etv6 gene each normally locate at 12p13 on the short derivative chromosome 12 .
 to investigate whether the etv6 gene be translocated intact to the other der 12 the lsi etv6 tel 12p13 dual-color break-apart rearrangement probe be use and a split hybridization signal be detect in both interphase and metaphase cell .
 interphase fish analysis detect of the nucleus score with the split signal .
 in metaphase cell the 5 primer of one etv6 gene be find on the small der 12 t while the 3 primer remain on the large der 12 t .
 the probe specific for the chop gene show a normal hybridization pattern in interphase nucleus analyzed while both chop allele be find on the large der 12 by interphase fish .
 full-size image 18k fish on metaphase cell show t .
 red probe correspond to the 3 end of mll whereas the green probe correspond to the 5 end of mll .
 intact mll be associate with an overlap red green yellow fusion signal .
 the telomeric 3 part of mll red be translocated to chromosome indicate by the long arrow whereas the 5 end of mll remain to 11q23 as indicate by the short arrow .
 chromosome 1 19 -satellite probe green give signal on the centromere of normal chromosome 1 5 and 19 as well as on the centromere of the der 19 .
 view within article .
 full-size image 16k fish result with the lsi tel aml1 es dual-color translocation probe which label the etv6 gene previously tel in green and the runx1 gene previously aml1 in red .
 the der 12 t arrow show two green signal corresponding to the two etv6 gene .
 view within article .
 full-size image 24k break-apart fish analysis demonstrate rearrangement of the etv6 gene as view with the inverted dapi filter .
 red probe correspond to the 5 end of etv6 whereas the green probe correspond to the 3 end of etv6 .
 intact etv6 be associate with an overlap red green yellow fusion signal .
 the 5 primer red of etv6 of the large der 12 be translocated to the small der 12 arrow .
 view within article .
 full-size image 14k break-apart fish analysis with the lsi chop 12q13 dual-color break-apart rearrangement probe .
 the two yellow fusion signal observe at the same der 12 reflect the two intact copy of the chop gene arrow as a result of the translocation of the chop gene to the other homologue chromosome 12 large der 12 .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 case be a treatment-induced aml-m2 that be diagnose 4 year after intensive chemo radiotherapy for breast cancer .
 the reciprocal t detect at diagnosis by cytogenetic analysis and far characterize by fish analysis be the primary chromosomal abnormality .
 the t be often associate with the diagnosis of t-aml mainly with m4 or m5 and at time with m1 and m2 .
 the present aml-m2 case seem to result from topoisomerase ii inhibitor agent epipodophyllotoxins or anthracycline rather than from alkylating agent because it be not precede by a preleukemic phase mds show balanced translocation involve chromosome band 11q23 and present at a rather short interval after chemotherapy .
 moreover young age as patient age and not a specific type of dna topoisomerase ii inhibitor seem to predispose specifically to development of t-aml with translocation to chromosome band 11q23 .
 the evolutionary clone which be detect upon disease relapse 8 month after consolidation therapy be characterize additionally by t .
 thus t be a secondary cytogenetic change that cause growth advantage to the evolutionary clone .
 since secondary abnormality be closely associate with the progression of leukemia and t be detect upon disease relapse it be likely that t play an important role in the progression of leukemia .
 a review of the literature reveal that t have be report in only seven leukemia case with limited clinical datum .
 this case include two case of all one case of cml three case of aml and one case of mds rarb-1 that progress rapidly to aml .
 although acute leukemia case with 12p13 rearrangement have be report in patient with a history of chemotherapy or radiotherapy such as patient and be associate with an unfavorable prognosis none of the report case with t and available medical history appear to be therapy relate .
 like patient however all the report patient with aml and t have a bad outcome or an unfavourable prognosis except one outcome be not available .
 since in much of the report case the treatment of the patient be not available and t be not the only cytogenetic aberration the prognosis of t as the sole aberration be currently unknown .
 patient have be in continuous relapse for the last 4 month and have a very poor prognosis not only because of t but also because of the t associate with the diagnosis of t-aml .
 table .
 demographic clinical and cytogenetic characteristic of the report case with t ptage yr sexdiseasemedical historytoxin exposurekaryotypetreatmentsurvivalreference mo early nrnr 342fph dibromomannitol busulfan -ifn -ifn5 5 del 5 q22q31 7 t 17 q25 q11q13 mo nrnr 677maml-m2unremarkablenonediagnosis 7 q35 first 7 q35 after treatment 6 month later 7 q35 induction chemotherapy three course of consolidation therapy reinduction chemotherapy22 mo nr3 mo 845faml-m2ca breast cancerchemo radiotherapydiagnosis relapse t induction chemotherapy three course of consolidation therapy salvage case .
 full-size table .
 abbreviation pt patient m male f female nr not report aml acute myeloblastic leukaemia cml chronic myeloid leukaemia ph philadelphia mds myelodysplastic syndrome all acute lymphoblastic leukemia cll chronic lymphoblastic leukemia ifn interferon alive .
 view within article .
 in the current case the t result in a split of etv6 gene demonstrate that the breakpoint on the large der 12 t be locate within the etv6 gene .
 thus the etv6 gene be disrupt make the expression of the wild-type product improbable indicate the possible formation of a new fusion gene .
 as it be know a fusion gene may lead to the formation of a chimeric protein activation of the partner gene or in few case to the formation of unproductive etv6 protein .
 rearrangements of the etv6 gene have be detect in another aml-m2 case with t at the relapse of the disease as in case .
 panagopoulos et report a fusion of etv6 and baz2a at 12q13 generate through a cryptic rearrangement between 12p13 and 12q13 which be not expect to produce a chimeric protein but a truncate form of etv6 in a pediatric pre-b acute lymphoblastic leukemia .
 further characterization of 12p rearrangement be important because not only may it reveal a new fusion gene increase understanding of functional property but may also identify new breakpoint that may disclose previously unrecognized oncogene .
 the translocation of the chop gene at 12q13 to the large der 12 indicate that the breakpoint on the small der 12 be proximal to chop .
 the fact that it be translocated intact reveal that the chop gene be not fuse with etv6 .
 however it be not determine however whether the change of the position of the chop gene affect normal expression .
 balanced translocation of the long arm of chromosome 12 have be describe in myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia implicate the 12q13q24 region in the pathogenesis of this malignant myeloproliferative disease .
 since approximately of myelofibrosis and other ph-negative myeloproliferative disease transform to acute leukemia gene on the 12q region may play an important role in predisposition to aml .
 investigation emphasize the role of split-signal fish for detection of submicroscopic chromosome reararrangements in leukemia especially for target gene with multiple partner gene such as etv6 and mll gene .
 the split-signal fish approach can detect a deletion of one part of the gene or a translocation independently of the involve partner gene .
 moreover it allow the identification of the partner gene or partner chromosome region if metaphase be present and there be no high level of false positivity range between 5 and .
 in conclusion finding suggest that the etv6 gene rearrangement in t may reveal a new fusion gene involve etv6 and a new partner gene at band 12q12q13 and that the disruption of this gene may be involve in the progression of the disease .
 to the good of knowledge this case also represent the first report of the rare t associate with t-aml and emphasize the role of split-signal fish for detection of submicroscopic chromosome rearearrangements in leukemia .
 in study on breast cancer datum be collect on a number of factor for which it be often difficult to obtain objective measure such as self-reported reproductive history and lifestyle practice .
 self-reported datum be potentially prone to a number of bias include recall interviewer and instrument bias which can subsequently lead to misclassification of datum and threaten the validity of study result .
 an important aspect of survey research be measure the extent of such bias and assess the quality of this self-reported datum .
 in the absence of objective measure validity of datum be assess .
 however reliability can be measure thus indicate how well a study tool elicit the same response at repeat measurement in a different setting or at a different point in time .
 in epidemiologic study the reliability of a survey instrument be much commonly assess use the test retest method in which response give in a baseline survey be compare with response give in a follow-up survey use the same questionnaire .
 many study in recent year have implicate postmenopausal hormone therapy ht in breast cancer risk based on self-reported ht use 1 2 and 3 .
 whereas finding have be report on the validity or accuracy of this self-reporting 4 and 5 assessment of reliability or consistency have be lack in the literature .
 as part of the quality control protocol for a large population-based case control study of the association between ht and breast cancer in germany we use test retest to evaluate the reliability of woman 's self-reporting of a number of putative breast cancer risk factor include use of ht reproductive history family history and lifestyle .
 method study population .
 study subject be participant in the mammakarzinom-risikofaktoren-erhebung marie study a large population-based case control study on breast cancer and ht conduct in two region in germany the city of hamburg and the rhein-neckar-karlsruhe region .
 between august 1 and september woman with a diagnosis of incident in situ or invasive breast cancer live in one of the study region be either prospectively identify and recruit through hospital and clinic serve the study region or retrospectively recruit from the hamburg cancer registry with diagnosis date back to january 1 .
 women be eligible as case if they be diagnose between the age of and 74 year be resident in one of the study region and speak german .
 control be frequency-matched to case for age and place of residence .
 interviews be conduct in person by trained interviewer use a structure study questionnaire .
 the study be in compliance with the declaration of helsinki and be review and approve by the ethic committee of both the university of heidelberg and the university of hamburg-eppendorf .
 the current reliability study include a sample of woman draw from the first year of recruitment for the marie study who in the context of a validation study do not specifically decline to be recontacted and have offer contact information on medical practitioner .
 of the approximately woman recruit in the first year of the study a stratified random sample of woman be draw for participation in the validation study .
 the sample be stratified by case control status age 59 and year and ht ever-use yes or no .
 with the intention of re-interviewing approximately of the targeted marie study sample we draw a random sample of 138 woman from this pool whom we then recontacted by mail request participation .
 a total of 123 woman 62 case 61 control respond positively result in a participation proportion of .
 between september and march case and control be re-interviewed in person by the original interviewer use a shorten version of the original study questionnaire .
 the reliability study questionnaire be design to be conduct in little than minute and consist of those question from the original questionnaire deem much relevant to the main study question include question on use of ht reproductive history family history and lifestyle .
 in both the original questionnaire and the short interview a photographic depiction of all know german ht product packaging be use as a memory aid .
 question be take verbatim from the original questionnaire except in those case in which question be restructure to allow for a smooth transition to a subsequent question .
 to remain within the time limit it be necessary to limit the amount of datum collect on ht use .
 to this end the second questionnaire ask only about the first and last phase rather than all phase of ht use .
 statistical analysis .
 the marie survey questionnaire generate datum that range from binary to continuous .
 to assess whether or not disagreement between response in the first and second interview lead to misclassification all datum include continuous datum be categorize as binary or ordinal except for age at first live birth which remain continuous .
 category grouping be based on either well-established category from the literature or level of variation we deem acceptable for a give variable age at menarche 12 12 14 15 17 18 year age at menopause 45 45 49 54 55 year number of pregnancy 7 week of breast-feeding first child 4 4 23 24 family history of any cancer yes or no wine consumption convert to ethanol consumption of 5 or 5 gram day bicycle ride on weekend 1 hour or 1 hour ever-smoked cigarette yes or no ever-use of ht yes or no application form of ht pill patch gel cream vaginal suppository injection drop type of ht monotherapy estrogen or progestin or combine estrogen progestin therapy and duration of ht use 5 or 5 year .
 we measure test retest reliability overall and stratified by disease status use both proportion of overall agreement po and cohen 's .
 po refer to the percent of participant who remain in the same category in both the first and second interview .
 positive response be the number of participant corresponding to the po .
 to test for differential agreement by case control status we fit logistic regression model for each variable use agreement agree disagree as the outcome variable and disease status case or control as the independent p for the difference in agreement by disease status be calculate use logistic regression model proc phreg .
 all statistical analysis be do use sas version sas institute cary nc .
 po agreement and weighted be calculate use the agree option in the proc freq procedure .
 result .
 based on the first interview case and control be similar with regard to age parity and breast-feeding of first birth .
 control be slightly but nonsignificantly much likely than case to have high education .
 no significant difference be see for smoking or wine consumption .
 the mean interval between first and second interview be similar for both case and control week range 21 71 and 41 week range 62 respectively p .
 table .
 characteristic of reliability study participant by case control status .
 case n 61 control n 62 interval between interview mean week range 21 71 41 62 highest education level obtain parity history of history of history of alcohol .
 full-size table .
 based on first interview .
 distribution of age region and hormone therapy not report because sample be stratified by this variable .
 first birth only .
 ever-smoked cigarette .
 ever-drank wine between and 49 year .
 view within article .
 table 2 show the test retest agreement for putative breast cancer risk factor include ht both overall and by disease status .
 agreement on ht use be very high for report ever-use po and do not differ by disease status p .
 selected aspect of the last phase of ht use vary in level of reliability type of ht monotherapy combine therapy show the strong agreement po follow by form of application po and duration of therapy po .
 control show slightly high agreement than do case for duration of ht use case po and control po but the difference do not reach statistical significance p .
 agreement for a four-category duration of use variable 5 year 5 to year to 15 year and 15 year while somewhat low than that of the binary variable nonetheless remain high po datum not show .
 table .
 test retest reliability of putative breast cancer risk factor lifestyle factor and ht .
 allcasescontrols of positive responsespo of positive responsespo of positive responsespo control p ever-use of application form of type of duration of ht age at age at last menstrual of age at first live duration of family history of any cancer wine consumption g of ethanol day regular cigarette bicycle ride hour weekend .
 full-size table .
 ht postmenopausal hormone therapy po proportion of overall agreement .
 in case in which much than two category be compare weighted be report .
 determined use a logistic regression model in which the dependent variable be agreement yes no and the independent variable be disease status case control .
 ht use refer to the late phase of use .
 excludes woman with miss value or woman report never have use ht .
 data censure at date of first interview .
 first birth only .
 between the age of and 49 year .
 participants be ask have you ever smoke regularly 1 cigarette per day for at least 3 month .
 between the age of and 49 year nonsport average number of hour per weekend .
 view within article .
 women 's recall of age at menarche and age at menopause be both highly consistent po and po respectively .
 agreement between interview be nearly perfect for both number of pregnancy and age at first live birth po and po respectively .
 although agreement for duration of breast-feeding of first child be slightly high for case than for control po and po respectively the difference be not statistically significant p .
 agreement on ever have breast-fed the first child be very high with no difference by disease status case po and control po p datum not show .
 a family history of any type of cancer show equally strong agreement for both mother po and sister po and this agreement be independent of a participant 's disease status .
 the reliability of variable represent lifestyle factor be strong both for wine consumption po and for cigarette smoking po .
 physical activity as measure by nonsport bicycle ride on the weekend have a somewhat low overall agreement po however agreement be essentially identical for case and control p .
 discussion .
 overall this study demonstrate that in the context of a german case control study datum obtain via two personal interview be highly reliable regard variable consider to be possible risk factor for breast cancer include datum on use of ht .
 that agreement be nondifferential by disease status .
 study be one of only two to examine the test retest reliability of self-reported ht use .
 to date only newcomb and colleague 6 have report finding on the reliability of self-reported ht use .
 in a substudy that be part of a large study on breast cancer and ht use they find high agreement for both ever-use and never-use case control and duration of use case intraclass correlation coefficient icc control icc .
 finding be similarly high for ever-use and never-use case control but low for categorize duration of use case control .
 one reason for the differential finding might be methodologic it appear that newcomb and colleague conduct the full interview twice whereas we use a shorten version of original questionnaire and do not ask about every phase of ht use .
 in the validity study of marie agreement be assess between woman 's self-reported use of ht and physician report .
 overall agreement for duration of ht use be icc with no differential agreement by disease status 7 .
 although abbreviated reliability questionnaire preclude direct comparison with the validity study result on duration of use the combine finding of the two study reinforce the high quality of the marie study datum .
 published finding on the reliability of the reproductive health factor we examine be uniformly high range from to 8 9 11 and 12 .
 finding on age at menarche parity age at first birth and age at last menstrual period corroborate this trend .
 study examine the reliability of self-reported breast-feeding tend to consider total duration of all birth .
 in study only breast-feeding of firstborn be consider .
 overall agreement between first and second interview be high in study in line with finding from previous study on total duration of breast-feeding that range between and 11 12 and 13 .
 although overall sample size be large when we stratified by family history of cancer and cancer type we be leave with insufficient statistical power to make stable estimate on the reliability of self-reported family history of specifically breast cancer .
 nonetheless study finding on family history of any cancer be in agreement with two previous study zhu and colleague 14 show strong reliability for report family history of any cancer both in regard to parent and sibling whereas horowitz and colleague 13 find a high level of agreement for family history of breast cancer first degree relative .
 a third study on the reliability of man report family history of prostate cancer find low agreement only answer the question consistently from one interview to the next .
 the author suggest that this may have be due to the type of cancer study with prostate cancer historically be little openly discuss in family compare with other type of cancer 15 .
 the fact that the study look exclusively at man may also explain why the finding be low than those of zhu and associate 14 horowitz and colleague 13 or the current study .
 the majority of publish study assess the reliability of lifestyle datum compare response for current or recent level of frequency and or quantity .
 fewer study have publish finding on recall of lifestyle datum from the distant past .
 on the question of whether or not they have ever regularly smoke participant in study give highly consistent response in line with finding from previous reliability study on smoking status in which agreement range from to 16 and 17 .
 relatively strong finding on the recall of alcohol consumption specifically wine consume between the age of and 49 year be confirm by two study that also examine the reliability of report alcohol consumption in the distant past .
 friesema and colleague 18 find that recall be high icc for a cohort of woman 45 to year who be ask about the quantity and frequency of alcohol consumption as adult 28 45 year .
 a study by russell and associate 19 find that reliability for lifetime ounce of alcohol consume recall in decade range between and spearman 's r however this finding be not stratified by sex or age group .
 in the current study we identify weekend bicycle ride as the variable for which agreement be low overall although agreement be nondifferential by disease status .
 as with smoking and alcohol consumption the reliability of datum on physical activity report in the literature generally refer to current or recent activity .
 however the reliability questionnaire of the marie study collect datum only on weekend bicycle ride .
 a study by friedenreich and colleague in which a sample of woman to 75 year be ask to recall hour per week history of physical activity in the distant past show that the reliability of woman 's recall of light to moderate exercise include bicycle ride for the time period 35 to year of age be relatively low pearson correlation coefficient for light exercise for moderate exercise compare with recall of other type of physical activity .
 according to the study agreement for physical activity increase as intensity and regularity increase .
 this explain the relatively low agreement see in study because weekend bicycle ride tend to be recreational and practiced little regularly than weekday transportation bicycle ride .
 in recent study test retest reliability have much commonly be measure use either cohen 's for categoric variable or icc for continuous variable .
 both of this method of hypothesis testing have be criticize because use be inappropriate when the prevalence of a value be low and icc because value be dependent on the variance of a factor in a population 21 22 23 and 24 .
 we use to compare finding with other study but comparison use this measure should be interpret with caution .
 an additional problem in compare study use the above measure be that dimension of a variable of interest often vary from one survey instrument to the next .
 for example collect datum on alcohol consumption can include question on current alcohol use ever or never alcohol use or amount of alcohol consume in the present recent past or distant past .
 furthermore whereas study result be nondifferential by disease status it should be note that good test retest reliability alone do not preclude the possibility of recall bias .
 study have several strength .
 to minimize the high variability associate with the use of two different interviewer 11 we make certain that the same interviewer be use for both the first and second interview .
 in addition the interview set remain the same far reducing potential variability of result .
 finally we allow sufficient time to pass between interview minimize the possibility that woman be simply recall the response they have give in the first interview rather than truly respond to the question a second time .
 the limitation of this study should also be consider .
 because study protocol require that the second interview remain under minute we be force to be selective in choose question from the original hour questionnaire .
 this result in include only first and last phase of ht use rather than to replicate total lifetime use .
 this make it difficult to compare result between the two interview and may have be responsible for the comparatively low agreement for duration of ht use .
 researchers should try to include all phase in the second interview in future reliability study that examine different life phase of a factor .
 in summary test retest reliability of the marie study survey questionnaire be in agreement with study examine similar breast cancer risk factor .
 finding indicate that the marie survey instrument be of good quality and have a low likelihood of misclassification .
 the author would like to thank ursula eilber kati smit and wibke busch for datum management support .
 however many chemotherapeutic agent exhibit dose-limiting toxicity include congestive heart failure myelosuppression neutropenia alopecia mucositis diarrhea myalgias thrombocytopenia neurotoxicity immune-suppression as well as mutagenic and carcinogenic effect .
 in addition a majority of cancer patient treat with chemotherapy relapse and die from disease .
 it be therefore of particular interest to explore therapeutic approach that reduce chemotherapeutic-mediated toxicity .
 the use of chemotherapeutic agent in conjunction with safe natural agent that act to incorporate them into little toxic yet effective combined-modality treatment may thus provide an answer to this urgent need .
 mgn-3 be a natural product that be obtain by react rice bran hemicellulose with multiple carbohydrate hydrolyzing enzyme from shiitake mushroom .
 the main chemical structure of mgn-3 be arabinoxylan with a xylose in main chain and an arabinose polymer in side chain .
 previously we present evidence for the role of mgn-3 as a potent activator of human nk cell in healthy subject and in cancer patient .
 recently we have demonstrate that mgn-3 sensitize human leukemic hut 78 cell to anti-cd95 antibody-induced apoptosis .
 in this study we examine the sensitize ability of mgn-3 toward the chemotherapeutic agent daunorubicin dnr in human breast cancer cell bcc and examine the possible mechanism underlie effect .
 material and .
 tumor cell line and culture condition .
 human breast cancer cell line mcf-7 and cell be use in the present study .
 cell be purchase from american tissue and culture collection atcc manassas va .
 tumor cell be maintain in laboratory in a complete medium cm that consist of supplement with fetal calf serum fcs 2 mm glutamine and g ml streptomycin and penicillin .
 drug and chemical .
 dnr and 3- bromide mtt be obtain from sigma .
 mgn-3 .
 mgn-3 be a denatured hemicellulose obtain by react rice bran hemicellulose with multiple carbohydrate hydrolyzing enzyme from shiitake mushroom .
 the main chemical structure of mgn-3 be arabinoxylan with a xylose in main chain and an arabinose polymer in side chain .
 mgn-3 be dissolve in cm at a concentration of mg ml .
 mgn-3 be provide by daiwa pharmaceutical co .
 tokyo japan .
 drug sensitivity assay .
 drug sensitivity be determine use a colorimetric mtt assay .
 this assay be based on the reduction of tetrazolium salt mtt 3- bromide by a mitochondrial dehydrogenase in viable cell from a colorless to a blue-colored formazan product in viable cell that can be measure spectrometrically .
 the amount of formazan produce be proportional to the number of live cell .
 cell well1 be seed in 96 well plate and cultured in triplicate in the presence or absence of various concentration of mgn-3 g ml and with or without select concentration of dnr to m .
 the final volume of medium in each well after addition of mgn-3 and or dnr be l .
 the culture be incubate at 37 c for 3 day after which g of mtt be add to each well and the culture incubate for an additional 4 h .
 the plate be centrifuged the medium carefully remove the formazan crystal solubilized with acid alcohol and the plate read at nm use an elisa plate reader molecular devices menlo park .
 the inhibitory concentration be determine as the drug concentration that result in a reduction in cell viability .
 the be determine by plot the logarithm of the drug concentration versus the survival rate of the treat cell .
 daunorubicin accumulation .
 dnr be a fluorescent compound and accumulation into cell be study by flow cytometry as previously describe .
 briefly cell be incubate in the presence or absence of g ml of mgn-3 at 37 c for 15 min .
 dnr 2 m be then add to the cell gently mix and incubate at 37 c for 45 min .
 accumulation of dnr be measure by flow cytometry use a facscan becton dickinson the fluorescence intensity be record from histograms and the datum express as mean fluorescence channel mfc number .
 kinetics of drug uptake in the presence of mgn-3 be carry out .
 mcf-7 cell be cultured with dnr 2 m in the presence or absence of mgn-3 g ml .
 the drug accumulation be examine at 15 min interval from to min by flow cytometry .
 statistical analysis .
 statistical significance be determine by student 's t-test .
 difference be consider significant at the p level .
 .
 effect of mgn-3 on the bcc survival .
 bcc be co-cultured with mgn-3 g ml for 3 day .
 treatment of mcf-7 cell with mgn-3 result in a significant decrease in cell survival that follow dose-dependent fashion .
 data in 1a show the percentage of mcf-7 cell survival be 75 and post-treatment with mgn-3 at concentration of and g ml respectively .
 on the other hand response of cell to the apoptotic effect of mgn-3 be little remarkable .
 full-size image effect of mgn alone on survival of breast cancer cell .
 mcf-7 or cell well1 be seed in 96 well plate and cultured in triplicate in the presence or absence of various concentration of mgn-3 mg ml for 3 day and survival of cell be determine by mtt assay .
 cell survival be show as a percent of control untreated a mcf-7 cell the datum represent the mean of six experiment each experiment in b cell the datum represent the mean of three experiment each experiment in p as compare with the control untreated cell .
 view within article .
 effect of mgn-3 on the sensitivity of bcc to dnr .
 bcc be cultured with dnr at different concentration to m in the presence or absence of mgn-3 for 3 day then cell survival and the value be determine .
 dnr as expect inhibit the survival of mcf-7 cell in a dose-dependent manner .
 the of dnr be 1 however when mcf-7 cell be co-cultured with mgn-3 and dnr the of dnr against mcf-7 cell be significantly reduce m .
 data in 2a show that mgn-3 at concentration of and g ml decrease the dnr of mcf-7 cell by 3- 5- and fold respectively as compare with dnr alone .
 mgn-3 also enhance the sensitivity of cell to dnr but to a lesser extent as compare to mcf-7 cell .
 data in 2b show that mgn-3 decrease the dnr of cell by fold .
 full-size image 53k effect of mgn-3 on dnr cytotoxicity in bcc .
 mcf-7 or cell well1 be seed in 96 well plate with dnr to m in the presence or absence of mgn-3 mg ml for 3 day .
 cell survival be determine use an mtt a mcf-7 cell the datum represent the mean of six experiment each experiment in b cell the datum represent the mean of three experiment each experiment in triplicate .
 view within article .
 effect of mgn-3 on accumulation of dnr in bcc .
 to determine if the observe enhancement of dnr cytotoxicity by mgn-3 be relate to alteration in drug transport we study accumulation of dnr by flow cytometry .
 result show that mgn-3 at a concentration of g ml significantly enhance the accumulation of dnr in mcf-7 cell and cell as compare to control unlabelled cell .
 the figure include graph of unlabelled cell as a control .
 full-size image 34k effect of mgn-3 on the accumulation of dnr in bcc .
 mcf-7 or cell be incubate with dnr 2 m with or without mgn-3 g ml and drug accumulation be assess use flow a mcf-7 b cell .
 view within article .
 kinetics of drug uptake in the presence of mgn-3 .
 dnr accumulation in mcf-7 cell be examine in the presence or absence of mgn-3 at 15 min 4 show that a difference in dnr accumulation be detect at 45 min with far increase accumulation at min .
 the presence of mgn-3 enhance drug accumulation from a mean fluorescence channel number of to .
 full-size image 23k kinetics of dnr uptake in the presence of mgn-3 .
 the accumulation of dnr 2 m by mcf-7 cell be examine in the presence or absence of mgn-3 g ml at 15 min interval min by flow cytometery and be express as mean fluorescence channel mfc number .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 in this study we examine the sensitize effect of mgn-3 on human breast cancer cell to the chemotherapeutic agent daunorubicin .
 treatment with mgn-3 significantly increase susceptibility of mcf-7 and cell to dnr and fold respectively as compare to cell treat with dnr alone .
 earlier study have show a potential for mgn-3 in reduce chemo-toxic effect in murine and cancer patient .
 a beneficial effect of mgn-3 on some adverse action of anticancer drug be report include protection against severe weight loss in mouse due to cisplatin cis and in rat due to cis and adriamycin adr as demonstrate in some of the gross gastrointestinal pathological change and in the prevention of death induce by cis .
 in addition result of clinical trial on progressive cancer patient treat with chemotherapy in the presence or absence of mgn-3 have show that treatment with mgn-3 result in a high survival rate and a mark improvement in the appetite in patient receive chemo as compare with patient treat with chemo alone .
 previous study have also show that other food supplement such as soy isoflavone and genistein increase induction of apoptosis of cancer cell line and inhibit the growth of breast tumor in mouse when administer in combination with tamoxifen .
 in addition chlorella vulgaris a unicellular green alga belong to the phylum chlorophyta alleviate some of the side effect of 5 fluorouracil treatment in animal experiment and vitamin e supplementation have a neuroprotective effect in chemotherapy-induced peripheral nerve damage .
 in this report we examine the mechanism by which mgn-3 increase the sensitivity of bcc to dnr in human breast cancer cell .
 result show that treatment with mgn-3 increase accumulation of dnr in both mcf-7 and cell .
 several agent enhance the cytotoxic effect of chemotherapeutic in cancer cell via increase intracellular drug accumulation and reverse multidrug resistance mdr in cancer cell include the calcium channel blocker diltiazem and the biscoclaurine alkaloid cepharanthine antiarrhythmic agent quinidine and synthetic isothiocyanate e-4ib .
 in addition nutritional intervention toward tumor responsiveness to chemotherapy have recently be examine .
 pardini report enhancement of tumor responsiveness to chemotherapy by omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid and also increase in intracellular drug accumulation .
 finally we show that mgn-3 reverse multidrug resistance in adriamycin-resistant ar cell .
 research over the last two decade have reveal that many anticancer drug function by induce apoptosis .
 we have recently examine the role of mgn-3 in caspase activation .
 result show that treatment with mgn-3 result in an increase number of cancer cell have active caspase 8 and 9 mcf-7 and 3 8 and 9 .
 in addition the sensitize effect of mgn-3 against human leukemic hut 78 cell to anti-cd95 antibody-induced apoptosis be also correlated with an increase number of cell have active caspase 3 8 and 9 .
 this suggest that mgn-3 sensitize cancer cell to dnr by a mechanism that involve caspase cascade .
 similar finding be recently report by whereby increase intracellular platinum accumulation post-treatment with a synthetic isothiocyanate derivative ethyl 4 isothiocyanatobutanoate be accompany by the stimulation of caspase-3 activity .
 the promise of anti-cancer activity by rice and rice bran derivative have recently be the focus of much research .
 mgn-3 be an arabinoxylan extract from rice bran that have prove to be a potent biological response modifier brm that have the ability to boost the function of different arm of the immune system such as nk cell t and b cell macrophage and the production of tnf- and ifn- .
 in addition mgn-3 have demonstrate an additional characteristic as a novel anti-tumor agent able to sensitize 1 human leukemia cell to death receptor cd95 -induced apoptosis 2 cancer cell to yeast-induced apoptosis 3 human ar myeloid leukemia cell to adr treatment and 4 human breast cancer cell to dnr treatment as show in the current study .
 other rice bran product have demonstrate anti-tumor activity include polysaccharide rbs lipoprotein fraction and agglutinin rba .
 in addition a recent study show that rice oryza sativa inhibit the growth of human leukemic u937 cell through the activation of peripheral blood mononuclear cell .
 we conclude that treatment of human breast cancer cell with mgn-3 significantly sensitize this cell to the chemotherapeutic agent daunorubicin .
 this datum may suggest that the food supplement mgn-3 in conjunction with chemotherapy may be useful for the treatment of breast cancer .
 conflict of interest .
 none declare .
 acknowledgement .
 the author would like to acknowledge daiwa pharmaceutical co .
 tokyo japan for the financial support of this project .
 other toxic air contaminants include diesel particulate exhaust benzene formaldehyde and polyaromatic hydrocarbon .
 the board unanimously approve this regulation based on a report that assess the exposure and health effect of secondhand smoke california environmental protection agency .
 this report an update of a report on health effect of secondhand smoke the calepa prepare in 1996 california environmental protection agency 1997 and national institute of health 1999 be the result of a 5 year process that include public and scientific review .
 this state 's scientific review panel on toxic air contaminants consider the report and calepa 's response to the public criticism and require several revision to the report before unanimously approve it .
 in addition to include the first outdoor measurement of secondhand smoke exposure the calepa add four new entry to the list of disease secondhand smoke cause breast cancer in young primarily premenopausal woman who have never smoke asthma induction in adult pre-term delivery and alter vascular the calepa find the evidence for breast cancer in postmenopausal woman the conclusion that secondhand smoke cause breast cancer in young woman who have never smoke be particularly important because the cancer tend to be particularly aggressive .
 despite the fact that the conclusion that secondhand smoke cause breast cancer in young woman be make by a lead government scientific agency use a modern version of the widely accept bradford hill criterion and the importance of this conclusion some include the american cancer society american cancer society and american cancer society and the surgeon general department of health and human services have not accept this conclusion .
 in order to provide a benchmark to assess the calepa 's conclusion we compare the evidence that form the basis for the surgeon general 's conclusion that secondhand smoke cause lung cancer in 1986 united state office of the surgeon general 1986 with the evidence calepa use to reach a similar conclusion on breast cancer in california environmental protection agency .
 analysis be not design to re-articulate the detail of the question of whether or not passive and active smoking cause breast cancer .
 the calepa report go into great depth 57 single-spaced page on passive smoking and in an appendix 39 page on active smoking to evaluate the evidence and an article summarize that evidence be recently publish .
 the report can be accessed on the web california environmental protection agency as can the 1986 surgeon general united state office of the surgeon general 1986 rather this analysis be design to compare the amount and nature of the evidence review by the calepa with that on passive smoking and lung cancer that exist in 1986 when the surgeon general conclude that passive smoking cause lung cancer .
 the secondhand smoke evidence for breast cancer in young primarily premenopausal woman be strong and much consistent than the lung cancer evidence be in 1986 .
 method .
 we compare the evidence from epidemiologic study cite by the surgeon united state office of the surgeon general 1986 with that cite by calepa on breast cancer in young primarily premenopausal woman in california environmental protection agency .
 the surgeon general give particular weight to high exposure category where dose response result be report and use all expose subject where dose response result be not report .
 we compare the total number of study the type of study cohort or case control the number of study with risk great than the number of study with statistically significant increase in risk for all expose or among those with the high exposure to secondhand smoke or with a statistically significant test for trend for secondhand smoke dose response analysis and the magnitude of the pool risk estimate .
 we also enumerate what criterion and other evidence each report examine to come to the conclusion of causality .
 result .
 table 1 summarize the criterion for evaluate the evidence and the amount and nature of evidence present in each report .
 table .
 summary of evidence on secondhand smoke and lung cancer from the 1986 surgeon general 's report united state office of the surgeon general 1986 compare to evidence on breast cancer in young primarily premenopausal woman from the california epa report california environmental protection agency factorlung cancer surgeon general report 1986 breast cancer in young woman california epa used update bradford hill criterion for causalityyesyes consideration adjustment for potential confoundersyesyes considered biological plausibilityyesyes examined dose responseyesyes considered effect of active smokingyesyes examined toxicologynoyes studiescohortcase controltotalcohortcase controltotal total number of positive relative risk 3811 statistically significant resultsb156 pooled risk estimatesrelative riskcrelative risk ci all studiesall case control study spousal risk study all expose specific subsets7 case control study with dose response information high exposure category study with well exposure assessment all expose full-size table .
 a excludes who report no premenopausal risk estimate but say pre- and post-menopausal result be similar and report a overall risk estimate for all breast cancer .
 b study with statistically significant increase in risk at the confidence level for all expose or among those with the high exposure to secondhand smoke or with a statistically significant test for trend for secondhand smoke dose response analysis .
 c no confidence interval report for pool estimate .
 view within article .
 both the surgeon general and the calepa evaluate the evidence use very similar update version of the bradford hill criterion for causality strength of association consistency of association temporality coherence and biological plausibility dose response experimental evidence .
 the surgeon general report give special attention to disease misclassification misclassification of the subject 's personal smoking status or exposure to ets and the expect ets lung cancer risk based on the active smoking risk .
 specific subsections of the calepa report address the follow issue in detail limitation of the study concern about bias in case control study the potential for confound controversy regard relative potency of active and passive smoking anti-estrogenicity of active and passive smoking exposure misclassification window of susceptibility publication bias and the similar risk observe for active and passive smoking .
 in 1986 the surgeon general report that 11 of 13 lung cancer study have point estimate of the risk ratio above with 6 of the 13 report statistically significant increase in risk for all expose woman or for at least one high exposure category united state office of the surgeon general 1986 .
 this summary include one study with a statistically significant increase in one histological subgroup only .
 one of 3 hirayama 1984 garfinkel and gillis et 1984 cohort study report a statistically significant elevate risk .
 the pool risk estimate for spousal exposure be for combine case control study and for the high exposure category for 7 study with dose response result no confidence interval be report united state office of the surgeon general 1986 table 2 .
 table .
 mammary carcinogen in tobacco smoke .
 aromatic hydrocarbonsaliphatic compound benzeneacrylamide benzo a pyreneacrylonitrile dibenz dibenzo pyreneisoprene dibenzo pyrenenitromethane dibenzo pyrenepropylene oxide dibenzo pyreneurethane vinyl chloride .
 nitrosaminesarylamines and nitrarenes n-nitrosodiethylamine4-aminobiphenyl n-nitrosodi-n-butyl-aminenitrobenzene ortho-toluidine .
 full-size table .
 source calepa report table california environmental protection agency .
 view within article .
 in the calepa report that 13 of the 14 study have point estimate for breast cancer in young or premenopausal woman above with 7 sandler et 1986 smith et 1994 morabia et 1996 zhao et 1999 johnson et kropp and chang-claude and hanaoka et of the 14 study report statistically significant elevation in risk for all expose woman .
 three much study while not reach statistical significance for all exposure report significant elevation in risk for a high exposure group hirayama 1992 and gammon et or a statistically significant dose response relationship with increase secondhand smoke exposure .
 use a similar approach as the 1986 surgeon general report of 14 study report a statistically significant increase in risk overall sandler et 1986 smith et 1994 morabia et 1996 zhao et 1999 johnson et kropp and chang-claude and hanaoka et or for high exposure hirayama 1992 smith et 1994 johnson et kropp and chang-claude gammon et and hanaoka et .
 two hirayama 1992 and hanaoka et of four hirayama 1992 wartenberg et reynolds et and hanaoka et cohort study report a statistically significant elevate risk .
 the pool relative risk estimate for young primarily premenopausal woman be for all expose woman and for the five study with the much complete exposure assessment all 5 of which have statistically significant result for all expose woman smith et 1994 morabia et 1996 zhao et 1999 johnson et and kropp and chang-claude .
 discussion .
 the evidence from epidemiologic study of secondhand smoke use by the calepa to draw a causal conclusion for secondhand smoke and breast cancer in young primarily premenopausal woman in be strong than that use by the surgeon general in 1986 to conclude a causal relationship between secondhand smoke and lung while the volume of study on passive smoking and lung cancer have increase since the 1986 surgeon general report the general pattern of mostly case control study show significantly elevate risk have continue the analysis of secondhand smoke and lung cancer in the iarc report that examine study publish up to find 16 of case control study and 3 of 8 cohort study have a statistically significant elevation in risk for some measure of secondhand smoke iarc working group on the evaluation of carcinogenic risk to humans .
 in the surgeon general review of 13 study of secondhand smoke and lung cancer publish between 1996 and 8 of 12 case control and 1 of 3 cohort study find statistically significant increase in risk department of health and human services .
 for breast cancer the calepa report have a high percentage of study that be individually statistically significant and much cohort evidence in support of increase risk than the 1986 surgeon general report have when it draw a causal conclusion for lung cancer .
 both report relied primarily on case control study to reach conclusion support by some result from cohort study .
 there be evidence that exposure between puberty and first full term pregnancy be particularly dangerous and this be a time when many young woman work as waitress .
 waitresses have the high prevalence of exposure to secondhand smoke of any occupational group and the level of secondhand smoke pollution be high of any venue that have be study .
 waitresses have the high nonsmoker lung cancer rate among all occupational group .
 applying the prevalence of exposure and the relative risk for breast cancer among young primarily premenopausal woman to waitress yield a attributable risk for breast cancer among this occupational group .
 those who doubt the causality of the association have argue that confound may explain the result .
 in fact almost all of the study on breast cancer especially those produce the high risk estimate control for much or all of know or suspect confounder for breast cancer bmi family history hormone use alcohol socio-economic status physical activity benign breast disease age at menarche reproductive measure and breast-feeding see the calepa report california environmental protection agency and miller et .
 see calepa table and for a detail presentation of confounder by study and section for a short discussion of furthermore it be unlikely that this factor be true confounder because the risk associate with tobacco smoke exposure be similar with and without control for confounder .
 the discussion of confound be much extensive than for lung cancer in the 1986 surgeon general report united state office of the surgeon general 1986 .
 the biological plausibility argument in the 1986 surgeon general report be limited to note that active smoking cause lung cancer so it be reasonable to assume that passive smoking would too united state office of the surgeon general 1986 .
 the calepa report present direct toxicological evidence that there be identify mammary carcinogen in rodent for tobacco smoke see table 2 california environmental protection agency .
 calepa also present molecular epidemiology consistent with the hypothesis that tobacco-induced breast cancer may be concentrate in woman with a genetic susceptibility to the carcinogen in tobacco smoke california environmental protection agency .
 the surgeon general report on secondhand smoke department of health and human services and the calepa report california environmental protection agency both present meta-analyses of the risk of breast cancer associate with secondhand smoke that find virtually the same elevation in risk compare table in the surgeon general report with table of the calepa report but arrive at different conclusion regard causality .
 while the surgeon general report conclude that the evidence be suggestive but not sufficient to infer a causal relationship between secondhand smoke and breast cancer the conclusion in the calepa report be that regular ets exposure be causally relate to breast cancer diagnose in young primarily premenopausal woman and that the association be not likely explain by bias or confound .
 the primary reason for this different conclusion be the converse of the biological plausibility argument that the surgeon general make for secondhand smoke cause lung cancer in 1986 since active smoking do not cause breast cancer how passive smoking iarc working group on the evaluation of carcinogenic risk to humans american cancer society american cancer society and department of health and human services 446 the statement that active smoking be not associate with an increase in risk for breast cancer be based on a pool analysis of 53 study that compare breast cancer in current smoker to never smoker and find no increase in risk as well as two major consensus document the surgeon general report on active smoking department of health and human services and the international agency for research monograph on tobacco smoke iarc working group on the evaluation of carcinogenic risk to humans that also reach negative conclusion regard the link between active smoking and breast cancer .
 while both this consensus report on active smoking be publish in iarc working group on the evaluation of carcinogenic risk to humans and department of health and human services the literature base for conclusion end in .
 study of active smoking and breast cancer that take care to minimize inclusion of passive smoker in the reference group however have demonstrate an increase risk of breast cancer in active smoker .
 meta-analysis of this study demonstrate a significantly increase risk of breast cancer associate with active smoking that be similar to the increase risk associate with secondhand smoke .
 because of the fact that the link between active smoking and breast cancer be not widely understand calepa california environmental protection agency include a discussion of this issue in report section and appendix a to chapter 7 .
 the calepa report six recent prospective cohort study that each find statistically significant increase breast cancer risk associate with at least some measure of active smoking california environmental protection agency .
 the fact that the risk associate with active smoking be not much large than the risk associate with passive smoking despite the much large dose of smoke that smoker receive also concern some researcher .
 the available evidence indicate that like heart disease the dose response curve be not linear .
 there be several possible explanation for the fact that the risk of active and passive smoking be not much different morabia et california environmental protection agency and johnson none of which be consider definitively establish .
 one explanation be that active smoking damage ovary and depress estrogen level which be associate with low breast cancer risk .
 this effect would tend to counter the effect of the carcinogen in the smoke in active smoker much than passive smoker who do not receive a large enough dose of smoke to depress estrogen level .
 another explanation be relate to the idea that the woman who be genetically susceptible to tobacco-induced cancer develop them at a young age .
 the biological mechanism that give rise to the lack of a linear dose response curve between active and passive smoking be clearly an important area for far basic research .
 the fact that the biology be not completely work out however have never be require before as a prerequisite for the identification of a risk .
 for example it take over a decade between when the increase risk for heart disease from passive smoking be first identify see for example glantz and parmley 1991 and when there be a reasonably complete understanding of the biology to explain why the effect of active and passive smoking be so similar see for example barnoya and glantz .
 indeed even though the tobacco industry have routinely demand detail biological explanation before determine causality ever since the original surgeon general report public health service 1964 conclude that active smoking cause lung cancer in man in 1964 neither the surgeon general nor the calepa have require that every detail of the biology be define before accept a clearly observe risk such as exist for lung cancer and secondhand smoke and breast cancer in young primarily premenopausal woman .
 acknowledgment .
 we would like to thank andrew hyland howard morrison and judson wells for feedback on an early draft of the glantz work be support by national cancer institute grant .
 the grant agency play no role in the conduct of the research or the preparation or revision of the manuscript .
 however character much cytostatic than cytotoxic have make clinical development difficult .
 the use of this new drug under the classical clinical trial design based on the objective of decrease tumour size have fail .
 several author have advise on the need for change in the design of this trial .
 the concept of minimum inhibitory dose or efficacy and maximum tolerable dose of molecular activity serum and histological marker or of clinical datum such as rate of progression and improvement in the quality of life be currently be introduce into the methodology of clinical from among all this change perhaps what be consider the much relevant be evaluation of the time variable in clinical however the limitation of usefulness in whatever version of expression overall survival disease-free survival time-to-progression ttp survival follow relapse lie in the high variability of measurement and which be a consequence of the interaction of factor that be tumour-dependent and those that be patient-dependent .
 in breast cancer the time of clinical evolution of the disease be very heterogeneous and as be well know for the same metastatic stage there be patient who succumb within a very few month and other who survive for several this clinical observation have be confirm in study of tumour .
 for several year there have be very specific evaluation of the clinical evolution of breast cancer .
 clinical factor histological and much recently molecular biology factor have be show to predict the time of survival follow the disease-free interval histology grade disease site number of metastases and the adjuvant treatment receive be some of the variable highlight in this some of the factor know to be predictive of the clinical evolution of the disease be employ in the design of clinical trial essentially in the stratification the objective be to eliminate or minimise the effect of this know predictive factor prior to the randomisation of the patient into the various treatment arm .
 however there be a need to highlight that even within trial with the same objective the variable select for stratification purpose be different and far this factor be often consider as independent variable despite inter-relationships among them be well .
 hence objective of the present study be to create a model that take into account all this inter-related predictive variable and to apply the model in grouping patient with respect to similar disease-progression time .
 patient and method data collection and characteristic of the patient .
 patient datum be obtain from the database el alamo of the spanish group for the investigation of breast cancer grupo espaol de investigacin en cncer de mama geicam which hold the datum from 32 participate spanish hospital .
 access to the datum be with permission of the spanish agency for personnel data protection and commitment to maintain anonymity of datum .
 we select patient diagnose via histology as have metastatic breast cancer and who have receive first-line treatment for advance disease .
 cancer of the contra-lateral breast be not consider in this series of patient .
 the quality of the collate datum be confirm use an extensive randomised audit program .
 for the statistical analysis we collect the demographic datum and variable that be potentially predictive of survival follow relapse and ttp .
 this be age hormonal status pre or post menopausal at the time of initial diagnosis and at the time of recurrence type of histology grade of differentiation expression of hormonal receptor tumour size in cm the number of metastatic axillary node adjuvant treatment receive with or without anthracycline disease-free interval number and site of metastases .
 table .
 clinical datum derived from the patient database .
 characteristicn age q25 q7546 66 .
 stage ii749 iiia173 iiib179 iv288 not known11 .
 axilla node involvement no328 not known246 .
 n t ratio 28612278 not .
 histology grade gi62 gii422 giii258 gx755 .
 hormonal receptor positive527 negative182 not known644 .
 hormonal status at diagnosis premenopausal486 postmenopausal974 not known44 .
 hormomal status at relapse premenopausal289 postmenopausal1118 not known97 .
 disease-free interval 24 months744 24 months757 not known3 .
 adjuvant chemotherapy with without anthracyclines372 no chemotherapy376 not known355 .
 site of recurrence bone667 lung nodule 274 mastectomy bed247 supraclavicular165 other ganglia126 skin and carcinomatous lymphangitis35 others121 .
 involvement visceral287 non-visceral1183 not known34 single421 not known383 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 dependent variable .
 the time-to-first progression tp1 in month be that between the initial date of therapeutic intervention for the metastatic disease include local and distance recurrence and the date of the progression from this treatment .
 statistical analysis .
 univariate analysis be perform in which all possible variable predictive of tp1 be include the survival curve be evaluate accord to the procedure of kaplan comparison of the curve be perform use the log-rank all variable that have a statistical value of be introduce into the subsequent multivariate analysis which be perform use cox 's regression analysis of proportional .
 we establish a system of score take into account the value of the coefficient obtain for the variable that reach statistical significance in the regression model .
 each of this score for each of the variable be establish by divide each coefficient by the low of the coefficient see table 4 .
 the validation of the model score procedure be perform on the overall patient sample for which all the relevant datum be available .
 for the calculation of the probability of progression follow the first-line treatment we construct a table to establish a principal variable the event of progression to the first therapy line .
 the period of time select be the first 2 year in interval of 3 .
 the spss package version for windows chicago il be use throughout .
 role of the funding source .
 geicam group have act as sponsor in the study design in the collection analysis and interpretation of datum in the writing of the report and in the decision to submit the paper for publication .
 result .
 the analysis involve a mature patient series .
 up to the time of the current analysis there have be a total of event of first-line progression to first-line therapy with a median follow-up of month ci of the metastatic disease .
 univariate analysis .
 the univariate analysis be perform accord to the method of kaplan meier for each of the variable and the tp1 .
 the variable that reach statistical significance be age hormonal status at the time of relapse disease-free interval axilla node involvement tumour treatment presence of hormonal receptor tumour size n t ratio the number of affect lymph node divide by the tumour size in cm grade of differentiation receipt of anthracycline as adjuvant treatment presence of loco-regional relapse single metastases non-visceral site and the response to the first-line treatment .
 table .
 univariate analysis of time-to-first progression tp1 variablenmedian tp1 ci p hormonal status at diagnosis .
 ganglion involvement 1 4 .
 tumour size 3 3 .
 ratio n ta .
 differentiation grade .
 hormonal receptor .
 adjuvant chemotherapy anthracycline anthracycline .
 disease-free interval 24 24 .
 hormonal status at relapse .
 metastatic site .
 single multiple .
 response to first-line therapy stable not evaluable or not .
 full-size table .
 a ratio of number affect lymph node size of the tumour in cm .
 view within article .
 multivariate analysis .
 cox 's regression model be use and in which all those variable that reach a statistical probability of in the univariate analysis be include .
 the variable that be show to have independent predictive value for the ttp be metastatic site visceral non-visceral and local recurrence at distance disease-free interval hormonal receptor and the n t ratio26 .
 table .
 multivariate cox 's regression analysis .
 metastases metastases hormonal receptor n t ratio disease-free interval dfi 24 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 model score .
 we assign a score to each variable taking into account the absolute value of in the equation obtain use the cox regression model .
 hence with the least value of as reference n t and assign the value of 1 point the rest of the score be obtain by divide the value for each variable by the reference for the non-visceral involvement the score would be point .
 table .
 construction of the model of score as a function of the value obtain from the cox 's regression analysis see text for detail variablequotientscore metastases single hormonal receptor n ratio disease-free interval dfi 24 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 to test the usefulness of the score system the model be apply to all the patient in whom all the relevant datum be available 461 patient .
 there be three class establish 3 4 6 and 7 8 point .
 while calculate de novo the ttp for each of this class we observe the follow median ttp for each of the score scale score 3 be month score 4 6 be month and score 7 8 be month log-rank .
 full-size image 38k validation of the score model on the same patient sample use for the time-to-first progression tp1 analysis .
 the score be segregate into three category 1-3 4-6 and 7-8 point .
 there be statistically significant difference between the three category .
 in the table below the figure be the percentage probability of progression in the first 2 year present in 3 monthly interval for each of the three category .
 view within article .
 survival table .
 survival table be employ to calculate the probability of progression follow first-line treatment at interval of 3 month over the 24 month period .
 discussion .
 to date the development of the anti-tumour agent and the demonstration of activity have be based on capacity much or little to reduce tumour size .
 one important consequence of such phase ii clinical trial have be to proceed to phase iii with a large and costly sample of study subject .
 with the arrival of drug devoid of cytoreductive capacity the methodology of a trial based on an intend response such as the reduction of the tumour size become little than satisfactory .
 some author have highlight the need for change in methodology so as to evaluate much effectively the utility of this new drug .
 one of the change propose as a fundamental objective for this new trials15 be to clarify the time variable in all of variation survival follow relapse ttp .
 however phase ii and phase iii clinical trial with this variable as the single objective of evaluation of effectiveness need the tool that would determine a priori those increment in the time variable that would be consider beneficial .
 this require that there be clear knowledge of the factor that predict the time-course of the natural history of the disease .
 in breast cancer the time variable be subject to wide variation .
 it have be well document that clinical factor metastatic site disease-free interval presence of symptom relate to the metastatic disease adjuvant treatment with anthracycline and histological factor hormonal receptor grade of differentiation have the capacity to predict the some of this factor be use in the process of stratification of the patient introduce into phase iii clinical however employ them as independent variable without take into account the inter-relationships that exist between them reduce the validity of the trial 's .
 the methodology of score that we employ have be apply to other situation by other author and as such be already in the present study the model be apply to an extend series of patient derived from 32 different hospital and with a long period of follow-up .
 the characteristic we observe in relation to the frequency of the site of metastatic disease be similar to those publish by other all the variable that reach statistical significance be available in the majority of patient undergo intervention for breast cancer thus endow the model with an ease of applicability .
 it be possible that at the time of evaluate the tp1 different clinical guideline be operate in the different hospital and as such different tp1 value would have be derived .
 however when we randomly compare datum from the different hospital or group of hospital we do not find such difference .
 indeed the moment of progression limiter of the time variable be well recognised in the clinical history while the frequency of clinical visit and the evaluation of disease stage be homogeneous in any one hospital compare to any another .
 the congruence between finding and those publish for other patient series with regard to the median time-to-first progression confirm that patient series be sufficiently representative of the real situation .
 some author have highlight the need for extensive historical controls25 and measure tool that take into account the inter-relatedness of the predictive factor .
 as such the present study provide a solution to the problem of reliably predict the clinical evolution of the disease .
 this clinical predictive model must incorporate in the future analysis new predictive response factor as her-2 and new concept in breast cancer disease as different phenotype basal like .
 conclusion .
 use new scoring model it be possible to group patient with metastatic breast cancer accord to the predict ttp .
 this can be a useful tool at the time of select and stratify patient on entry into new randomised clinical trial .
 further study be currently underway to determine the sensitivity and specificity of the model as well as usefulness in clinical trial that evaluate new drug .
 physical and psychological functioning be aspect of well-being4 and can be measure use health status hs questionnaire .
 quality of life qol be another aspect of well-being4 and refer to satisfaction with different aspect of life .
 the number of qol-studies in breast cancer have increase enormously in recent year however a large number of this study do not refer to qol but measure health status or health-related qol hr-qol .
 hs hr-qol and qol be often consider interchangeable but this concept be not the qol be define by the world health organization quality of life group as an individual 's perception of position in life in the context of the culture and value system in which he live and in relation to goal expectation standard and in other word qol be a person 's subjective evaluation of functioning in a wide range of area .
 in a review hughes et identify 14 frequently mention qol domain social relationship and interaction psychological well-being and personal satisfaction employment self-determination autonomy and personal choice recreation and leisure personal competence community adjustment and independent live skill residential environment community integration support service receive individual and social demographic indicator personal development and fulfillment social acceptance social status and ecological fit physical and material well-being and civic this domain be consider to encompass the breadth of life .
 when research only focuses on satisfaction within health relate domain such as physical functioning psychological well-being and personal satisfaction and social relationship and interaction hr-qol be measure .
 hs measure the impact of disease on health relate patient be ask about physical possibility social activity and state of mind and not about di contentment concern functioning .
 thus hs indicate whether there be limitation whereas hr qol also reflect to what extent a patient indicate to be bother by this limitation .
 depending on the research question both hs and qol can be important to evaluate well-being in breast cancer survivor .
 if the outcome of interest be the possible long term effect of breast cancer treatment on function hs questionnaire be sufficient .
 when the objective be to study satisfaction with function qol questionnaire need to be use .
 thus it be extremely important to recognize the different definition of both concept and to realize that hs questionnaire be not able to answer research question concern qol .
 the majority of study concern well-being in breast cancer patient use much than one questionnaire to reach this will provide a good insight into the well-being of the woman test as long as the distinction be make between outcome score from hs questionnaire and outcome score derived from qol questionnaire .
 this cross-sectional study be carry out to demonstrate the difference between qol and hs .
 the world health organization quality of life questionnaire a qol questionnaire and the rand 36-item health survey rand-36 a hs questionnaire be administer to breast cancer survivor .
 two hypothesis be study .
 the first hypothesis concern the difference in qol and hs for breast cancer survivor .
 we assume that breast cancer survivor would not have an impair qol due to psychological adjustment to the give situation whereas hs would still be impair because of continue negative effect of breast cancer and treatment on function .
 the second hypothesis concern the correlation between the and the rand-36 .
 we assume that the outcome score of the qol and the rand-36 hs would not correlate well and that the score on the two questionnaire would not yield the same conclusion .
 based on previous study that show difference in health status due to surgical the breast cancer survivor be divide in two treatment group breast conserve therapy versus mastectomy .
 patient and method patient .
 all consecutive patient who be diagnose with early stage breast cancer and have surgical treatment between january and december be eligible for this study .
 women with prove breast cancer recurrence or distant metastases be exclude since it be know that recurrence of breast cancer have a profound negative effect on qol and would therefore compromise result .
 one hundred and seventy-eight woman be contact by telephone and ask if they want to participate .
 reason for refusal be not interested n too hard do not want to be confront with the past n 15 and other reason n 7 .
 one hundred and forty-six woman agree to participate .
 of this return the questionnaire .
 this patient be a representative sample of the dutch early stage breast cancer patient .
 treatment be accord to international guideline and the proportion of the two treatment group be comparable with information from the international cancer for all patient time since diagnosis and surgical treatment be at least 54 month range 54 66 month .
 reference population .
 the reference population use for hypothesis 1 be derived from the questionnaire manual .
 for qol the reference population exist of healthy dutch woman who live in the same residential area as the include breast cancer the reference population for the hs be healthy dutch woman who be comparable concern age and social .
 questionnaire .
 qol be assess with the world health organization quality of life assessment a cross-culturally develop generic multi-dimensional it consist of item assess 24 facet of qol within six domain physical health psychological health level of independence social relationship environment spirituality and a general evaluative facet overall quality of life and general health .
 the be develop cross-culturally and simultaneously in 15 center worldwide .
 aspect of life that be consider to contribute to qol be discuss in focus group in each center .
 the inclusion of facet be eventually based on a consensus within and between culture among health professional healthy individual from the general population and person who be in contact with health service because of disease or the response scale for each question be 5 point scale and score on each facet and domain can range from 4 to the timeframe for evaluation when complete the questionnaire be the previous two week .
 the reliability and validity of the instrument be in the present study the cronbach alpha for the domain range from domain physical health 3 facet to domain environment 8 facet .
 the rand 36-item health survey dutch version16 be use to assess health status .
 the rand 36 be practically identical to the medical outcome study short form-36 sf-36 21 and evaluate health in eight dimension physical functioning bodily pain role limitation due to physical health problem role limitation due to personal or emotional problem general mental health social functioning vitality energy fatigue and general health perception .
 in addition it include a single item provide an indication of perceive change in health .
 the rationale for this dimension be that the health concept be much frequently include in widely-used health survey .
 the item use to measure the score per dimension be adapt from instrument that have be use for year or subscale score be represent on a scale from to .
 a high score indicate a good health status .
 the timeframe for evaluation of function be the previous four week .
 the rand-36 have a good reliability and in the present study the cronbach alpha range from dimension social functioning 2 item to dimension physical functioning item .
 statistical procedure .
 for examine difference between the two treatment group breast conserve therapy bct and mastectomy mtc with regard to clinical parameter of the tumor surgical treatment adjuvant treatment and the demographic characteristic child live with a partner educational level chi-square test be employ .
 analysis of variance be perform to examine difference between the bct and mtc patient with regard to score on qol separate domain and the dimension of the rand-36 .
 the score on overall qol the domain of qol and the dimension of the rand be compare for each treatment group separately with the score of an exist reference population use one-sample t-test .
 due to the number of test p-value small than be consider statistically significant .
 the association between the domain of the and the dimension of the rand-36 be examine with pearson correlation coefficient .
 all analysis be perform with the statistical package for social science spss version .
 result characteristic of include patient .
 the include woman be comparable to the 38 woman who decline participation with respect to surgical treatment and tumor characteristic .
 however the participant be significantly young p much often receive chemotherapy p and much often be treat with radiotherapy p .
 characteristic of the two treatment group .
 sixty-eight woman be treat with breast conserve therapy removal of the tumor by mean of a lumpectomy and axillary lymph node dissection follow by radiation of the breast and 72 woman undergo a mastectomy removal of all breast tissue include the nipple and axillary lymph node dissection .
 concerning demographic and clinical feature there be no difference in age and have a partner or child between the two treatment group .
 level of education show a significant difference .
 compared with the bct group a large percentage of the mtc group have have much than 14 year of education p .
 the clinical feature show difference regard tumor size lymph node metastases and adjuvant treatment .
 the mtc group have significantly much large tumor p have much lymph node metastases p and much often receive hormonal therapy p .
 women in the bct group be treat much frequently with radiotherapy p as this be part of the conserve treatment .
 table .
 clinical and demographic feature for bct and mtc group include patient only bct n 68 mtc n 72 age at diagnosis sd partner5555 level of education 6 yr 6 14 14 yrs9 tumor size 1 cm 1 3 cm 3 lymphnode metastases yes 33 chemotherapy1627 hormone therapy2239 .
 full-size table .
 note p p .
 view within article .
 quality of life and surgical treatment .
 scores on the facet overall qol and the separate domain of the do not show significant difference between the two treatment group .
 compared with the reference score the bct group score high in the psychological domain p .
 there be no other the reference score be derived from the manual of the and the rand-36 .
 table .
 scores of the bct and mtc group on the different domain of the and the reference score .
 bctmtcreference scoreresults t-test overall qol and general physical psychological bct t p level of social spiritual full-size table .
 comparison between the score by one-sample t-test significant result show in table .
 note standard deviation between bracket .
 view within article .
 health status and surgical treatment .
 scores on the dimension of the rand-36 show no significant difference between the bct and mtc group .
 compared with score from the reference population woman in the mtc group score low on physical functioning p role limitation due to physical problem p and general health perception p .
 the bct group have a similar health status as the reference population .
 table .
 scores of the bct and mtc group on the different dimension of the rand-36 and the reference score .
 bctmtcreference scoreresults t-test general health mtc t p physical mtc t p social role limitation mtc t p role limitation general mental energy bodily health full-size table .
 comparison between the score by one-sample t-test significant result show in table .
 note standard deviation between bracket .
 view within article .
 correlation between qol and hs questionnaire .
 finally correlation be calculate between the rand-36 and the .
 following absolute correlation between and be consider small between and medium and and high as large .
 overall the correlation show a considerable variety .
 corresponding domain and dimension be pair see bold correlation in table 4 .
 general health and overall qol show a high level of correlation .
 the qol physical domain show a high correlation with the rand dimension energy fatigue but only a medium correlation with the dimension physical functioning .
 mental health and the psychological domain have a high correlation whereas the social domain and social dimension only just reach medium correlation .
 the high correlation find be hs energy fatigue with qol physical domain represent common variance .
 table .
 pearson correlation between the individual domain of the and the separate dimension of the rand-36 .
 overall domainpsych .
 domainlevel of domain general phys social role role mental energy bodily health .
 full-size table .
 note correlation be not significant .
 all other correlation be significant at the level 2 tail or level 2 tail .
 view within article .
 discussion aim of study .
 the aim of this study be to determine whether the score on qol and hs of breast cancer survivor be comparable to score of healthy reference population and to establish the difference in conclusion reach when apply a qol questionnaire compare with a hs questionnaire .
 previous study have compare different hs questionnaire to see whether the result be interchangeable when apply to cancer all study show considerable difference in outcome between the questionnaire use .
 so far there have not be a comparison of a qol and hs questionnaire in breast cancer patient .
 result concern qol .
 no difference be find with regard to qol between the two treatment group .
 as expect the patient qol be not impair when compare with the reference score .
 the bct group score well in the qol psychological domain .
 a possible explanation for this result might be psychological adaptation .
 several study have show that benefit find in the diagnosis breast cancer and treatment result in well psychological adaptation and thus well when breast cancer survivor be compare with age-matched woman with benign breast disease they report poorer physical health and function but no difference in psychological stress and greater positive psychological adaptation such as improve life .
 result concern hs .
 the score on the hs dimension do not show significant difference between the two treatment group .
 however compare with the reference score the mtc group score significantly ill on general health perception physical functioning and role limitation due to physical problem .
 this concur with hypothesis .
 the result of study be in agreement with previous study use the rand-36 that report score comparable to healthy but show that woman who have a mastectomy be much likely to have low score on the physical health .
 consequences of study outcome .
 based on the outcome of the it may be conclude that there be no long-term negative effect of breast cancer on qol in survivor who do not have a recurrence of disease .
 however the score on the rand-36 show problem in the physical dimension for the mastectomy group .
 thus based on a qol measure it can be conclude that no intervention be need while treatment aim at physical and emotional functioning seem need in the mtc group when focusing on health status .
 the difference in outcome score in study be also reflect in the pearson correlation .
 the high correlation between the and the rand-36 be for qol physical health and hs energy fatigue represent of the variance slightly much than half of the variance indicate that the outcome measure be not interchangeable .
 an illustrative example for the incompatibility of the score on both questionnaire in study be the social domain from the compare to the dimension social functioning of the rand-36 .
 when physical limitation or emotional problem cause a low number of social activity or social contact the score on the dimension social functioning of the rand-36 will be low .
 however a patient may be very satisfy with the nature of the social contact .
 since the do not inquire into the number of social contact but especially inquire about the satisfaction concern this social activity and the social support the score on the social domain of the may be high .
 this mean that attempt to improve the social life of patient based on a low score on social functioning with the rand-36 will probably not contribute to a well qol because the patient do not feel socially impair .
 literature overview .
 the only study we find that compare a qol questionnaire to a hs questionnaire be perform by breek et and and they administer both the rand-36 and the to patient with intermittent claudication33 and to patient follow liver both study observe that although patient report significant impairment in all domain of hs qol measurement show that they do not consider all objective functional impairment as a problem .
 the difference in result of both questionnaire underscore the importance of apply a questionnaire that be able to answer the research question pose .
 when use a combination of measure of function and satisfaction the relation between function and satisfaction can be study much extensive .
 it have be argue that ideally a combination of hs and qol measure should be use because they provide different in practice this be hardly ever do but it can be very useful in study design that be both interested in functional outcome of a treatment but also wish to assess the influence of treatment on qol .
 such study question can only be answer correctly when use both type of questionnaire .
 conclusion .
 disease-free breast cancer survivor report a good qol that illustrate a good adjustment to the diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer .
 hs however be still impair after four to five year in woman who receive mst .
 based on this outcome we feel that it be imperative to conclude that hs questionnaire be use to assess qol .
 when researcher want to incorporate adjustment of a patient to a give situation a qol questionnaire should be use .
 in some instance however the relationship between y and each of the covariate xj can vary accord to the value take by any of the remain variable xk kj .
 moreover the joint effect of each pair on the response may vary in turn among subset define by the level of a categorical covariate in this regression framework consideration might well be give to the logistic generalized additive model gam hastie and tibshirani include interaction which express the conditional probability p as .
 1 where be an unknown constant and a set of smooth unknown bivariate partial function .
 clearly the representation give in 1 be not unique and some restriction have to be impose in order to avoid different combination of fjk and that lead to the same model .
 to ensure identification of the model the follow two condition be require i zero-mean effect for each pair of continuous covariate and ii the sum of the specific effect across the level must be zero .
 specifically for a give sample follow the model in 1 this two condition be give by i and ii for 1jkp and 1in .
 note that this condition do not represent restriction on model since it be possible to modify it so that it conform to this same identifiably condition .
 the only purpose of the constraint be to define clearly which part of a function fjk be the main effect and which part be the interaction .
 it should be note that the model formulation in 1 be quite general and nest some interesting regression model .
 for instance if for a logistic gam include continuous-by-continuous interaction be obtain .
 if there be no continuous-by-continuous interaction that be for then the factor-by-continuous interaction gam be obtain .
 moreover if for and fjk xj the pure logistic gam without interaction term be then obtain .
 in recent year a number of paper have appear which address the problem of estimate and testing gam with interaction term .
 hastie and tibshirani 265 266 discuss various approach use smooth spline .
 present method based on marginal integration .
 wahba and guo among other propose the use of smooth spline anova method .
 and investigate alternative method based on penalize spline .
 marx and eilers also propose p-splines and wood use thin plate regression spline .
 other work such as the paper of brezger and lang also use p-splines and develop bayesian version of gam and extension to generalized structure additive regression .
 all the above-cited paper be mainly focused on gam include factor-by-curve and or continuous-by-continuous interaction .
 although we may find some statistical contribution to gam include factor-by-surface interaction see wood and several r package like mgcv package write by wood allow for fitting this type of model in practice the popularity of this model be still scarce .
 main reason for this be a the lack of a close theory to address interesting inferential issue such as either testing for interaction or construct confidence interval and b the practical difficulty in the final interpretation of the model .
 the main goal of this paper be to propose nonparametric method for estimate and testing interaction in this type of model while retain interpretation from a practical point of view .
 for this aim we propose i a generalization of the procedure suggest recently by and for estimate and testing in the general factor-by-surface model in 1 and also ii the use of the odds-ratio or curve to obtain a final biomedical interpretation of this model .
 the propose estimation algorithm be an adapt version of the local scoring algorithm based on bivariate local linear kernel smoothers .
 for detect which bivariate continuous effect depended on the group associate with the factor we have use the likelihood ratio-based test .
 since no theory have be yet formulate in the field of hypothesis testing in this particular context we therefore suggest the use of the bootstrap-based technique to approximate the distribution of the propose test .
 it be know however that the use of bootstrap resampling technique involve estimate the model a great number of time and it be also a time-consuming process .
 in this connection reliance on the local linear bivariate kernel estimator have enable us to use binning technique fan and marron 1994 and wand 1994 which considerably reduce the computational time and render procedure operational in practical situation especially when the sample size be very large .
 the methodology develop in this work be employ in a computer-aided diagnosis cad system dedicate to the early detection of breast cancer .
 usually this system produce as a result suspicious area extract from the breast that may be recognize as true lesion or false detection .
 characteristic of this area relate with brightness shape and texture be extract in term of continuous variable feature employ different image processing algorithm .
 however the process of detect structure within an image be always influence by the contrast of the image .
 contrast be one of the much important feature of an image and can be define as the difference in the image gray level scale between closely adjacent region .
 contrast have a large influence on the detectability of structure within a region be hard for human eye and computer to detect low contrast structure within a region of an image .
 mammograms can be classify as dense high gray level value or fatty low gray level value in term of breast tissue .
 therefore detection of suspicious area usually represent by relative high level value will be influence by the surround tissue of each area because the contrast of those suspicious area will be low in dense mammogram .
 although this work will be focused on regression model for binary response all the procedure explain in this paper would be easily generalizable to any response belong to the exponential family .
 the layout of this paper be as follow .
 a new procedure for test factor-by-surface interaction in logistic gam be suggest in section 2 and bootstrap technique be use to approximate the distribution of the test statistic .
 in section 3 we propose the nonparametric estimation algorithm and discuss the bandwidth selection procedure .
 to assess the validity of test statistic a simulation study be provide in section in section 5 we apply the propose methodology to a cad system dedicate to the detection of mass on digital mammogram .
 approach yield immediately interpretable result by calculate the or one of the much widely use effect measure in biomedical research .
 finally we conclude with a discussion in section .
 testing factor-by-surface interaction in logistic gam .
 in this section the bootstrap resampling technique be use for test the factor-by-surface interaction model in 1 .
 for each pair of continuous covariate the interest center on the null hypothesis namely the bivariate effect of do not depend on the level of factor .
 for this aim we propose the use of the likelihood ratio test based on the statistic .
 where denote the estimate of p obtain under the null hypothesis and the deviance d be define as d ylog p 1 y log 1 p .
 in other word this test statistic represent the increment in the deviance from the null model .
 it must be remark that if the null hypothesis be verify then t should be close to zero but it will generally be positive .
 thus the test rule for check with asymptotic significance level 1- be that the null hypothesis be reject if tt where tp be the percentile 1 p of the distribution under the null hypothesis of the theory for ascertain the asymptotic distribution of t be very difficult which in turn render it very difficult to calculate the critical value binary bootstrap be thus use to calculate the critical value .
 this technique be an adapt version of the bootstrap consider in and to obtain a response belong to the exponential family .
 specifically the testing procedure consist of the follow step step 1 estimate the null regression model under the null hypothesis and obtain the bootstrap pilot estimate .
 for .
 step 2 generate a sample with and calculate the bootstrap test statistic tb in the same way as the original t be calculate .
 the test rule consist of reject the null hypothesis if tt where t p be the empirical 1 p -percentile of the value .
 estimation algorithm .
 in this paper we have develop a new algorithm that enable 1 to be estimate .
 the propose algorithm be a modify version of the local scoring algorithm with backfitting .
 the backfitting algorithm cycle through each of the combination and the estimate be obtain by apply two-dimensional local linear kernel smoothers to the corresponding partial residual .
 this residual be obtain by remove the estimate effect of the other covariate .
 the step of the estimation algorithm be as follow initialize .
 compute the initial estimate and .
 step 1 form the adjust dependent variable and the weight so that and where .
 step 2 fit an additive model with factor-by-surface interaction to use backfitting and compute the update as follow step cycle 1jkp calculate the partial residual .
 and for and compute the local linear polynomial estimator update see appendix a for detail 2 3 with be the bandwidth associate with estimation of fjk and the bandwidth associate with estimation of for each of the level of the factor .
 step this process be repeat with be replace by and by until where bf be a small threshold and .
 step 3 repeat step 1 2 with be replace by for until where be a small threshold and .
 it should be note that in the case of only one continuous covariate backfitting be avoid and only a local scoring procedure be use .
 the result estimate must satisfy the identification condition explain in section in this way for each the estimate and must be consider as centered version in the form with and the estimate constant should be consider as .
 in this way the estimate model give by be equivalent to the original estimate model satisfying the identification condition .
 bandwidth selection .
 computational aspect .
 it be well know that the probability estimate obtain for the model heavily depend on the bandwidth and use in the local linear kernel estimate of the partial function fjk and respectively .
 the bandwidth be a trade-off between the bias and the variance of the result estimate .
 various proposal for an optimal selection have be suggest for the gam yet the difficulty of asymptotic theory in a backfitting context mean that nowadays optimal selection be still a challenge open problem .
 moreover a distinction should be draw between the bandwidth choice for estimation and for testing .
 computational experience have show that whereas interaction term tend to be smooth out and the null hypothesis of no interaction never reject in the case of large bandwidth in the case of small bandwidth the interaction term tend to prove significant .
 cross-validation be use for the automatic choice of bandwidth .
 in each of the cycle of the algorithm the bandwidth use to obtain the estimate in 2 be automatically select by minimize the follow weighted cross-validation error criterion where be obtain from the sample .
 similarly the bandwidth use to obtain the estimate in 3 be select by minimize .
 4 where be again obtain leave out the ith datum point .
 in the implementation of the test previously explain the estimate have be obtain employ the window 1jkp from the initial sample .
 this window have be fix through all the bootstrap procedure .
 in this way the estimate be obtain with the same window as the initial estimate .
 the bootstrap resampling technique be time-consuming process because it be necessary to estimate the model a great number of time in case .
 moreover cross-validation imply a high computational cost inasmuch as it be necessary to repeat the estimation operation several time in order to select the optimal bandwidth .
 to speed up this process we use binning-type acceleration technique fan and marron 1994 and wand 1994 to obtain the binning approximation of and in each of the iteration of the estimation algorithm see appendix a for detail .
 like in the estimation algorithm with the binning technique the cross-validation error cvjk can be approximate by and similarly where be obtain without the element of the binning sample .
 in the previous expression and be grid of equidistant point along the xj and xk direction and .
 be the empirical covariance matrix obtain from the set and j and k be the distance between consecutive grid in the jth and kth direction respectively .
 this approximation reduce notably the compute time because in the calculation of the cvjk error it be only necessary to evaluate the kernel k in a maximum of nn different point for each choice of the bandwidth and in this addition no account be take of grid point have zero weight .
 simulation study .
 in this section we describe a simulation study that be conduct to assess the validity of the propose factor-by-surface interaction test in logistic gam .
 give the z factor 1 and the bivariate vector of continuous covariate the binary outcome variable y be generate accord to ybernoulli p where .
 5 the z factor be select accord to .
 the covariate x1 and x2 be choose as independent random variable uniformly distribute as uniform .
 one thousand independent sample be generate from the model in 5 under and .
 it must be remark that the constant a control the factor-by-surface interaction exist in the model 5 .
 if this correspond to the situation of no interaction which mean that .
 as the value of a increase the degree of interaction of the model rise .
 average result for be show in 1 for .
 in this figure the true probability surface p and p as well as the corresponding mean based on a sample size of repetition be show .
 full-size image 113k true probability surface p upper-left plot p lower-left plot and mean estimate based on repetition upper-right plot lower-right plot for and .
 view within article .
 regarding the issue of testing we consider the null hypothesis or equivalently use the test t explain in section 2 above .
 for determine the critical value of the test t we apply bootstrap as describe above with a total of bootstrap sample .
 the type i error as well as the power have be calculate as the proportion of rejection of in run .
 size and power of the test have be determine for different level and and for different sample size n and .
 first we study the type 1 error of test .
 the result obtain express in be show in table .
 table .
 estimated type i error in .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 as it can be observe from table 1 the test perform well in general with type i error relatively close to the nominal one .
 moreover the difference among the obtain type i error and the nominal level decrease as the sample size increase .
 when the sample size be small the test reject much than expect for and nominal level .
 when the sample size increase the obtain type i error be similar to the nominal level .
 the power curve show in 2 display the expect behavior pattern .
 for the probability of rejection be approximately at the nominal level and this probability rise to 1 as the value of a increase .
 however we can see that the power of the test strongly depend on the sample size consider .
 thus the power of the test be very poor for reduce sample size while the test register a notable improvement in power as sample size grow .
 in simulation study we have consider only two continuous covariate and a factor with two level .
 in much complex situation it be clear that the power of the test will strongly depend on the sample size consider .
 thus in practical situation deal with several covariate and or several level of the factor large simple size be recommend to ensure the validity of the mechanism propose in this paper .
 full-size image 62k percentage of rejection for increase a for nominal level of and and sample size and .
 view within article .
 application to the radiology datum .
 the propose methodology be apply over a cad system dedicate to the detection of mass radio-opacities of small medium size on digital mammogram .
 the database consist of mammogram select from the file of patient who have undergo biopsy at the hospital of the health district of santiago de compostela spain .
 from the total number of mammogram correspond to abnormal image lesion be present the rest mammogram be classify as normal image no lesion be present .
 the criterion employ by the radiologist for select malignant case be that a biopsy prove malignant mass exist on the mammogram .
 the location of all biopsy-proven mass be mark on the original film by a radiologist .
 moreover each mammogram be classify as dense or fatty by the radiologist based on the general appearance of the tissue of such mammogram .
 briefly fatty tissue mean high contrast between mass and surround tissue .
 thereby the mass be relative easy to detect .
 dense tissue mean low contrast and it represent a difficult detection task .
 the cad scheme employ for this study have be describe in .
 once the detection procedure be perform a total of 1639 region suspicious of be a malignant mass be detect from the original mammogram and a set of algorithm be apply over each region to reduce eliminate the number of false positive detection .
 the result be a set of feature extract from each region that be employ as input of a classifier .
 two of those feature be associate with the maximum x1 and minimum x2 gray level value of the pixels belong to each detect region candidate to be a malignant mass .
 this gray level-based feature play an important role for discriminate between breast mass and normal tissue .
 in fact breast mass be usually homogeneous radio-opacities with relative high gray level value .
 moreover for dense breast the superimpose tissue reduce the contrast and make difficult the detection of mass even for radiologist .
 the main goal of the present analysis be to investigate if the relationship between the probability of the malignant mass and the continuous feature x1 and x2 depended on the type of tissue .
 for this task a total of detect region be provide .
 the datum set consist of the follow information where tp represent the true positive malignant mass .
 we have first analyzed the probability of be a tp for each value of x1 and x2 without distinguish the case as fatty or dense tissue global analysis by fitting a logistic gam as follow 6 with p be a fix parameter and f12 be a bivariate function .
 the estimate probability surface be plot in 3a .
 full-size image 53k estimated probability of be positive surface for a global analysis b fatty tissue and c dense tissue .
 shaded region represent high probability of be positive .
 view within article .
 to test if the interaction term f12 be significant we have use the bootstrap-based likelihood ratio test previously propose in .
 assuming the logistic gam in 6 we have consider the null hypothesis of additivity x1 x2 where f1 and f2 be univariate function depending on x1 and x2 respectively .
 by apply the likelihood ratio test to datum the corresponding p-value be low than render the x1-by-x2 interaction term statistically significant .
 we next investigate the possibility that the probability of be a tp associate with x1 and x2 might vary with the type of tissue .
 the corresponding surface interaction term be then add and we have fit the factor-by-surface logistic gam give by .
 7 where p be a fix parameter and f12 be a bivariate function .
 moreover f12 correspond to the global surface without discriminate among tissue be the surface relate with the fatty tissue and correspond to dense tissue .
 the corresponding estimate probability surface for both tissue be plot separately in 3b and c .
 applying the factor-by-surface interaction test outline in section 2 we have obtain a p-value low than thereby the interaction term be statistically significant .
 this mean that the joint effect of the continuous covariate select in this study behave different for fatty and dense tissue and the factor-by-surface interaction have to be include in the model .
 to assess the association between the probability of be a tp and the type of breast tissue we have propose the use of the or one of the much widely use effect measure in biomedical research .
 in accordance with the model present in 7 we define the or surface for each pair of value as .
 take the dense tissue that be as the reference category .
 in accordance with the model present in 7 the or expression be simplified in .
 8 in context the use of the or lead us to decide what type of tissue allow for a well discrimination between true detection true positive and false detection false positive .
 the estimate probability of be a true positive be show in the rough nature of the upper boundary reflect the absence of real datum at those value .
 the shape of the three curve be quite similar .
 this reflect the complexity of the problem .
 however the model can introduce clear difference at high probability level shade region of the curve .
 probabilities be high in 3b in comparison with 3c as 3a represent a compromise between fatty and dense tissue 3b and c respectively .
 nevertheless to ascertain much clearly how the functional form of the bivariate surface vary with the value of x1 and x2 we decide to plot the cross-section of the estimate surface separately .
 in this way 4 leave column show cross-section of the estimate surface of 3b and c at four different value of x1 .
 in the same figure right column we have also add the estimate or curve with the corresponding pointwise confidence band .
 for the construction of such confidence interval the bootstrap resampling technique have be use .
 specifically give a point the step for construction of the confidence interval for the true or be as follow full-size image 78k cross-sections of the estimate surface of 3 and associate or curve with the corresponding pointwise confidence band at different value of x1 maxcdf a b c and d .
 view within article .
 step 1 estimate the model 7 and obtain the bootstrap pilot estimate for and then the pilot estimate .
 for .
 step 2 generate a sample with .
 once this process have be complete the limit of the confidence interval for the true or be give by .
 where be the estimate obtain with the original sample and represent the p-percentile of the difference .
 in 4 we can see that for low value the probability of be a tp be small and no statistically significant difference appear between tissue .
 as x1 increase the probability of be a tp increase only for dense tissue with a difference that be statistically significant .
 for there be no significant difference but the probability to be a tp be high on both tissue and finally for high probability be for fatty tissue with a difference statistically significant for low value of x2 .
 it can be observe that high probability be relate to high value of x1 and x2 as it can be expect since high value of x1 and x2 represent a high gray level value of the detect region and thereby a great discrimination from the rest of the breast tissue .
 however the surface have different behavior depending on the type of tissue 4a d .
 for fatty tissue the probability of a detect region be a tp be high for value of x1 above in the interval .
 moreover the change from low to high probability in the fatty tissue surface be large .
 for dense tissue those value increase to and x2 in the interval .
 thus as the density of the breast tissue increase from fatty little dense to dense the brightness of the mass have to rise high value of x1 and x2 because it be essential to preserve the contrast of the mass relate to the surround tissue for detection .
 those result be coherent with the fact observe by the radiologist that for dense mammogram the superimpose breast tissue reduce the visibility of the mass .
 concluding remark .
 in this work logistic regression model where the bivariate effect of pair of continuous covariate on response may depend on the group define by the level of a covariate factor have be consider .
 the main goal have be the development of a statistical test for detect this type of interaction namely the factor-by-surface interaction .
 local scoring with backfitting based on kernel smoothers have be use for estimate the model and the smooth window be select employ the cross-validation technique .
 since backfitting theory be difficult in gam context bootstrap-based procedure be use in the implementation of this test .
 the use of this technique involve estimate the model a great number of time in case bootstrap replicate be use and we therefore have use binning acceleration technique to speed up the process .
 gam-based methodology be very flexible and extension to much complex interaction model be possible .
 it should be note however that introduce high order interaction would gradually bring back problem of interpretation and the curse of dimensionality .
 we have apply this novel approach to the result yield by a cad system dedicate to the detection of breast mass to differentiate lesion from nonlesion .
 result show different behavior of the detect region when the breast tissue be take into account thus indicate that the factor be relevant when perform discrimination study of the breast region .
 from a computational point of view binning acceleration make it possible for estimation and the testing process to be conclude in under 2 min for a sample size of use a mhz pentium iii 128 mb ram .
 in conclusion the method develop in this paper together with the or curve allow for the possibility of obtain a model of the behavior of the feature extract from suspicious area which include the distortion introduce by the surround tissue .
 this result may help developer to improve the performance of cad system .
 a user-friendly fortran program implement the propose methodology outline in this paper can be obtain by contact the first author at .
 acknowledgment .
 the author be grateful to the anonymous referee for helpful comment that result in an improve version of the manuscript and to celia varela for technical assistance and comment .
 the work of javier roca-pardias and carmen cadarso-surezwas support by grant european feder support include from the spanish ministry of education and by xunta de galicia grant .
 novel promising agent to prevent er-negative breast cancer recurrence be the growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase include epidermal growth factor receptor egfr inhibitor which although have good tolerability and potential synergy with other treatment have largely demonstrate disease stabilisation or minor response only in clinical trial in unselected breast cancer the g-protein-coupled alpha1 1 adrenergic receptor ar bind the catecholamines epinephrine and norepinephrine to regulate vascular tone and cardiac and 1 adrenergic receptor antagonist include prazosin doxazosin and terazosin have be use as anti-hypertensive therapy .
 additionally extensive in vitro and in vivo study have demonstrate that doxazosin and terazosin induce prostate cancer and the propose mechanism have include action via tgf--signalling i-b induction and reduce focal adhesion based on this prior study in prostate cancer and own study of doxazosin-mediated inhibition of in vitro pituitary tumour proliferation we seek to test the effect and far elucidate the mechanism of doxazosin action in breast cancer cell in in this study we demonstrate that doxazosin dox treatment inhibit proliferation and induce apoptosis in both er-positive and er-negative breast cancer cell .
 this dox-mediated action be largely independent of 1 adrenergic receptor expression and result in reduce phosphorylated-egfr phosphorylated-erk and inhibition of nf-b signal .
 additionally co-treatment with doxazosin and the egfr tki iressa synergistically induce increase apoptosis in breast cancer cell .
 material and .
 cell culture .
 human breast cancer mda-mb-231 and mcf-7 cell and normal breast mcf12a cell be cultured accord to the american type culture collection rockville md usa recommendation .
 pcr for 1 adrenergic receptor cell proliferation assay and cell cycle analysis .
 pcr for the 1a and 1b receptor be perform as previously cell proliferation be measure use the mts assay promega madison wi usa and the cell cycle analysis be carry out by facscan becton dickinson nj usa after the cell be treat with either doxazosin dox or vehicle dmso for 48 72 h .
 transfection and apoptosis assay .
 for egfr and nf-b-mediated signal experiment separate aliquot of mda-mb231 cell be first transfected16 with dominant negative-egfr- gifted from jeffery kudlow and or -nf-b gifted from eduardo arzt wild-type mda-mb 231 and transfectant cell be then treat with vehicle or g ml egf or ng ml tnf alone or in combination with 25 m dox for 48 h .
 for oestrogen experiment er-positive mcf-7 cell be cultured in dmem supplement with charcoal strip serum css for 72 h then cell aliquot be treat with dox or vehicle for 48 h either in css medium or css plus nm estradiol .
 cell be then wash incubate with propidium iodide and fitc-labelled annexin antibody pharmingen san diego usa prior to flow cytometric analysis to quantify apoptotic .
 western blot analysis .
 treated cell be lysed in ripa buffer and protein g electrophoresed and immunoblotted by standard technique use antibody to cleave and total caspase-3 erk1 2 phospho-erk1 2 -actin egfr phospho-egfr all all from santa cruz biotechnology usa and phosphorylated ib- cell signalling beverly ma .
 for egfr phosphorylation study egfr be immunoprecipitated with anti-egfr antibody transduction laboratory lexington ky bind to protein a agarose prior to application to gel .
 in vitro ap-1 sre e2f and cre transcriptional activity .
 mda mb231 breast cancer cell be transiently transfected with 1 g of ap-1 cre sre or e2f luciferase plasmid clontech laboratory inc ptal-luc be use as negative control and treat with either dox 25 m or vehicle for 6 or 12 h after which fold-change in luciferase activity be determine .
 statistical analysis .
 experiment be perform in triplicate in three separate experiment and analyse by anova kruskal wallis with dunn 's multiple comparison test or non-parametric t test .
 p value be consider significant .
 .
 the 1 adrenergic receptor antagonist doxazosin inhibit human breast cancer proliferation .
 first set of experiment investigate mcf-7 and mda-mb231 breast cancer cell proliferation follow doxazosin treatment .
 as depict in 1 dox-treatment inhibit er-positive and er-negative breast cancer proliferation in a dose- and time-dependent manner .
 after 48 h dox-treatment mcf-7 proliferation be inhibit between and dox m and proliferative rate be far inhibit at 72 h p likewise in er-negative mda-mb231 cell dox-treatment m to m for 48 h inhibit proliferation increase to at 72 h p .
 full-size image 61k doxazosin dox treatment of mcf-7 and mda-mb231 breast cancer cell inhibit breast cancer cell proliferation a and b lead to a dose-dependent decrease in s-phase cell population c and decrease prb expression d .
 p p v vehicle dox doxazosin prb phosphorylated retinoblastoma protein .
 view within article .
 doxazosin-treatment lead to g1 cell cycle arrest .
 to gain insight into the mechanism of dox-mediated inhibition of proliferation we next perform cell cycle analysis in the dox-treated breast cancer cell .
 dox-treatment for 72 h result in a fold increase in g1-phase cell at doxazosin dose high than 25 m datum not show p along with a dose-dependent decrease p in s-phase cell population .
 western blot analysis of dox-treated mcf-7 cell reveal decrease phosphorylated retinoblastoma prb protein expression provide a potential mechanism for the dox-mediated g1 cell cycle arrest .
 doxazosin induce breast cancer apoptosis in vitro .
 we next investigate the effect of dox-treatment on breast cancer cell apoptosis .
 following dox-treatment 5 m 48 h facs demonstrate a dose-dependant 15 fold increase in annexin-fitc positive apoptotic mcf-7 cell .
 in contrast no significant increase in dox-mediated apoptosis be evident in normal breast epithelial mcf12a cell .
 as previous study report differential effect of dox in androgen-receptor positive or negative prostate cancer cell we examine dox-mediated apoptosis in oestrogen-receptor express mcf-7 cell incubate in either charcoal strip serum css alone or css plus nm estradiol e2 .
 higher apoptotic rate be demonstrate in dox-treated mcf-7 cell in css medium alone compare to css and e2 p for m dox .
 in er ve mda-mb231 cell dox-treatment also result in a 3 7 fold increase in apoptosis .
 additionally western blot analysis reveal a fold increase in mda mb231 cleave caspase-3 expression implicate caspase-3 in dox-mediated breast cancer cell apoptosis .
 full-size image 52k dox-treatment dose-dependently increase breast cancer mcf-7 cell apoptotic rate in comparison to normal breast mcf12a cell a .
 dox-mediated apoptosis be much mark in oestrogen-deprived er express mcf-7 cell b but be also evident in er negative mda-mb231 cell c and associate with increase cleave caspase-3 expression d .
 p p v vehicle casp-3 caspase-3 dox doxazosin .
 view within article .
 doxazosin-mediated anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic action be independent of the 1 adrenergic receptor .
 doxazosin 's anti-hypertensive action be due to it 's ability to bind the 1 adrenergic receptor but the mechanism s of anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic action in cancer cell be not well understand .
 to elucidate this issue 1 adrenergic 1a and 1b receptor mrna expression be examine in the breast cancer cell line by rt-pcr .
 1a and 1b mrna expression be demonstrate in mda mb-231 cell but be not detectable in mcf-7 cell suggest doxazosin induce anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic effect be not entirely dependent on 1 adrenergic receptor expression .
 additionally co-treatment of 1a and 1b express mda mb231 cell with doxazosin and block dose of the irreversible 1 receptor antagonist phenoxybenzamine do not abrogate the pro-apoptotic action of doxazosin .
 full-size image 21k rt-pcr demonstrate 1a 1a and 1b-adrenergic receptor ar expression in mda mb231 cell line but 1 ar expression be absent in mcf-7 cell a and dox-mediated apoptosis be not abrogate by co-treatment of breast cancer cell with the 1-ar antagonist p p v vehicle pb phenoxybenzamine dox doxazosin .
 18s ribosomal rna serve as an internal control .
 view within article .
 doxazosin reduce egfr phosphorylation to inhibit map kinase signal .
 as doxazosin have a quinazoline ring structure similar to the egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitor iressa and tarceva we hypothesised a potential interaction of doxazosin via the egfr in the breast cancer cell .
 iressa-treatment alone 1 m for 48 h do not significantly alter apoptotic rate in contrast to doxazosin treatment alone m for 48 h which result in a fold increase in apoptosis p .
 combination dox- m and iressa- 1 m treatment for 48 h result in a 14 fold increase in apoptosis p compare to apoptotic rate in vehicle-treated mda mb231 cell suggest synergistic pro-apoptotic action of this drug .
 we next examine total erk1 2 and phosphorylated erk1 2 perk expression by western blot in dox-treated mda-mb231 cell before and after epidermal growth factor egf treatment .
 as expect egf treatment ng ml for min up-regulated perk1 2 expression mean sem fold p 4b lane 2 but intriguingly dox-treatment 5 m min dose-dependently inhibit egf-induced breast cancer perk 1 2 expression 4b lane 3 8 .
 iressa-treatment 1 m min also potently inhibit egf-induced perk1 2 expression 4c lane 3 and unexpectedly co-treatment with doxazosin 5 m min plus iressa 1 m min result in a far decrease in egf-induced p-erk1 2 level in the breast cancer cell 4c lane 4 7 .
 full-size image 61k a doxazosin-treatment induce mda-mb231 breast cancer cell apoptosis whereas iressa alone do not alter apoptotic rate .
 iressa and dox-co-treatment far increase apoptosis compare to doxazosin b doxazosin dose-dependently inhibit lane 3 8 egf-induced breast cancer perk1 2 expression compare to egf alone lane 2 .
 c iressa-treatment partially inhibit egf-induced perk1 2 lane 3 combination dox- and iressa-treatment far decrease egf-induced perk level lane 4 7 .
 d egf-treatment induce phosphorylated egfr expression lane 2 which be inhibit by iressa lane 3 .
 dox treatment m also inhibit egf-induced pegfr expression lane 4 .
 p p v vehicle .
 view within article .
 give this finding we next examine activate egfr expression and as predict egf-treatment ng ml min lead to a 18 fold increase in breast cancer phospho-egfr level 4d lane 2 compare to vehicle treatment which be completely inhibit by iressa treatment 1 m min 4d lane 3 .
 however doxazosin treatment alone m min also decrease egf induce phosphorylated egfr level in the mda mb231 cell 4d lane 4 p suggest that like iressa doxazosin act to inhibit breast cancer egfr activation .
 doxazosin inhibit ap-1- sre- e2f- and cre-mediated transcription activity .
 to further characterise dox-mediated action on mapk-mediated signal transduction we transiently transfected activator protein 1 ap-1 serum-response element sre e2f and camp-response element cre luciferase reporter plasmid ptal-luc into mda-mb231 breast cancer cell and treat transfectant with dox 25 m or vehicle for 6 or 12 h and then determine luciferase activity .
 dox-treatment lead to a fold fold fold and fold decrease in ap-1 sre e2f and cre promoter luciferase activity respectively in the mda mb231 breast cancer cell transfectant compare to the vehicle treatment 5a p demonstrate that dox-treatment inhibit egf-signalling .
 full-size image 37k change in mapk and nf-b-activation in breast cancer cell follow dox-treatment of mda-mb231 cell transiently transfected with ap-1 cre sre and e2f promoter reporter construct a or phosphorylated ib- expression follow tnf-treatment b .
 p p v vehicle dox doxazosin .
 view within article .
 doxazosin inhibit nf-b-mediated transcription .
 as dox-treatment have be show to reduce phosphorylated inhibitor of kappa kinase ikk level and as dox inhibit the nf-b transcriptional target ap-1 sre e2f and cre in breast cancer cell we examine baseline and tnf- stimulate phosphorylated ib- kinase level after dox treatment .
 as expect tnf ng ml min induce phosphorylated ib- pib- expression fold 5b lane 1 and 2 whereas dox-treatment and m min decrease constitutive mcf-7 breast cancer pib- expression lane 3 4 and abrogate tnf induce pikb- kinase level 5b lane 5 and 6 suggest nf-b be also a transcriptional target of doxazosin .
 combination egf and tnf be require to block dox-induced breast cancer apoptosis .
 to characterise the contribution of egfr- and or nf-b-mediated signal to doxazosin-mediated apoptosis we transiently transfected mutant dominant negative and nf-b18 construct into mda-mb231 breast cancer cell and then examine doxazosin-mediated apoptotic rate at baseline follow vehicle treatment and follow egf ng ml or tnf ng ml mediate egfr- or nf-b-activation respectively .
 as depict in 6 transfection of egfr- or nf-b gene into mda mb231 cell do not alter base line apoptotic rate of wild-type breast cancer cell 6 group 1 although dn-egfr and dn-nfb expression increase breast cancer cell sensitivity to dox-mediated apoptosis 6 group 2 .
 tnf- ng ml 6 group 3 or egf ng ml 6 group 5 treatment alone or combination tnf- ng ml and egf ng ml group 7 do not alter baseline apoptotic rate in wild-type dn-egfr- or dn-nfb-expressing breast cancer cell .
 furthermore co-treatment of wild-type dn-egfr or dn-nfb express breast cancer cell with tnf- or egf alone plus doxazosin 25 m for 72 h do not totally abrogate dox-mediated breast cancer apoptotic rate although apoptotic rate in tnf- treat dn-nfb express cell or egf-treated dn-egfr-expressing cell be low than in vehicle treat dn-transfectants 6 group 4 and 6 .
 only co-treatment with tnf- and egf block dox-mediated apoptosis in wild-type dn-egfr and dn-nfb express cell 6 group 7 and 8 indicate that dox-mediated breast cancer apoptosis involve both egfr- and dn-nfb-mediated signal .
 similar result be see in parallel experiment in mcf-7 cell datum not show .
 full-size image 25k change in dox-mediated breast cancer apoptosis follow transient expression of dn-egfr or dn-nf-b construct in the presence or absence of egf- or p p .
 dn-egfr dominant negative egfr dn-nf- b dominant negative nf-b v vehicle dox doxazosin .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 anti-oestrogens effectively reduce oestrogen receptor er -positive breast cancer recurrence but additional chemopreventative agent to prevent er-negative breast cancer be urgently several previous study have report that clinically approve dose of the quinazoline-based 1 adrenoceptor antagonist doxazosin and terazosin inhibit proliferation and induce apoptosis in prostate cancer cell and it be not clear why this concept have not be far pursue in human clinical we extend this finding by demonstrate here that doxazosin inhibit human breast cancer cell proliferation and potently increase apoptosis in vitro in both er-expressing mcf-7 and er-negative mda-mb231 breast cancer cell via multiple mechanism which be not entirely mediate via the alpha adrenoreceptor .
 in some prostate cancer study doxazosin and terazosin treatment appear primarily to induce apoptosis with a lesser effect on prostate cancer cell proliferation and different response have be describe in androgen receptor ar expression compare to ar-negative prostate cancer based on observe reduce s-phase population and decrease prb expression doxazosin-treatment significantly inhibit breast cancer cell proliferation in addition to potently induce apoptosis an effect which be much pronounce in breast cancer cell compare to normal breast epithelial cell and much mark in the absence of oestrogen in er-expressing mcf-7 cell .
 unexpectedly doxazosin-mediated anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic effect be observe in breast cancer cell which do not exhibit significant 1-ar expression and 1-ar blockade do not abrogate doxazosin-mediated pro-apoptotic effect suggest dox-mediated apoptotic action be not entirely mediate via the -adrenergic receptor .
 we demonstrate that doxazosin-treatment reduce phosphorylated egfr and phosphorylated erk level to inhibit egf-stimulated signal transduction and that doxazosin and iressa action overlap to increase breast cancer apoptotic rate compare to either drug alone .
 however inactivation of egfr-signalling do not totally abrogate dox-mediated breast cancer apoptosis and additional study demonstrate that dox-treatment also reduce constitutive and tnf-induced breast cancer pikk level .
 however as for egfr-inactivation blockade of nfb signal alone do not totally abrogate dox-mediated breast cancer apoptosis and egf- and tnf- co-treatment be require to inhibit the pro-apoptotic effect of doxazosin .
 we speculate that the different apoptotic response in cancer versus normal cell may be due to great activation of egfr- and nf-b-mediated signal pathway in breast cancer versus normal breast cell .
 give multiple mechanism of action to inhibit both egfr- and nf-b-mediated action it be a well establish safety profile and comparatively low cost clinically approve doxazosin dose may ultimately offer a novel therapeutic option for both er positive and er negative breast cancer patient .
 however far in vivo breast cancer study be now necessary to pave the way to clinical trial of doxazosin therapy in patient with breast and other cancer .
 conflict of interest statement .
 none declare .
 acknowledgement .
 we thank jeffery kudlow and eduardo arzt for kind donation of the mutant egfr and nf-b plasmid respectively .
 this work be support by a borden foundation seed grant the margaret early foundation and the cedars-sinai research institute .
 in particular a strong association between adiposity and increase risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal woman have be describe for decade .
 since much case of breast cancer be sex hormone-dependent the positive association between obesity and development of breast cancer may be partly explain by excessive estrogen production from adipose tissue .
 recently however many study have show that adipose tissue be a huge endocrine organ that can produce many bioactive product know as adipocytokine .
 leptin the 16 kda protein product of the obese gene that be identify by be a representative adipokine with multiple biological action .
 although the role of leptin be initially think to be maintenance of homeostasis of body weight by regulate food intake and energy expenditure via hypothalamic-mediated effect it have be show to be implicate in the modulation of many other process such as reproduction hematopoiesis angiogenesis wound healing and cell differentiation and proliferation .
 leptin exert physiological action through the leptin receptor ob-r which have be identify in many tissue include brain placenta pancreas adrenal gland hematopoietic cell liver lung and heart .
 previous study have demonstrate that ob-r be express in human normal and malignant breast epithelial cell and can mediate the proliferation of this cell .
 in addition we have show that leptin and ob-r protein overexpression be correlated with a high risk of tumor recurrence in human breast cancer .
 this result take together suggest that the leptin-ob-r signal might promote the carcinogenesis and progression of breast cancer .
 the her2 neu erbb2 receptor be a ligand-less mr receptor encode by the neu proto-oncogene and belong to the epidermal growth factor receptor egfr family of receptor tyrosine kinase .
 each receptor of the egfr family have in common an extracellular ligand-binding domain a single membrane span region and a cytoplasmic protein tyrosine kinase domain .
 despite the abundance of ligand identify for egfr erbb3 and erbb4 no direct ligand for her2 have be discover .
 instead her2 function as a homo- or heterodimer with other member of the egfr family upon interaction with agonistic ligand .
 her2 be overexpressed in to of human breast cancer and have be associate with enhance tumor aggressiveness and a high risk of relapse and death .
 her2 be currently attract a great deal of attention because a new adjuvant therapy use an antibody against her2 trastuzumab herceptin have prove to be effective in treat certain breast cancer .
 the leptin receptor ob-r belong to the receptor superfamily and consist of several isoform include a long ob-rb and a short form ob-ra .
 ob-r lack intrinsic kinase activity and the intracellular janus-activated kinase 2 jak2 and mitogen-activated protein kinase mapk cascade be crucial for activation of downstream signaling molecule .
 however the interaction of this two pathway in the leptin-induced signal in malignant cell remain largely unknown .
 in this study we therefore examine the signal interaction between ob-r and her2 both of which be consider to be correlated with the malignant potential of breast cancer .
 material and method .
 human recombinant leptin be purchase from sigma chemical louis mo .
 an egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitor ag1478 be purchase from biomol plymouth pa and both a her2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor ag825 and a jak2 inhibitor be from calbiochem la jolla .
 mouse antihuman phosphotyrosine polyclonal antibody mab mouse anti-extracellular signal-related kinase erk 2 mab and mouse anti-ob-r be purchase from santa cruz biotechnology santa cruz and mouse antihuman monoclonal her2 neu antibody be from lab vision fremont .
 rabbit antiphospho-mapk monoclonal antibody be purchase from cell signaling danvers ma .
 cell culture .
 human breast cancer cell mcf7 t47d mda-mb231 and skbr3 be all purchase from the american type culture collection manassas va .
 this cell be maintain in dulbecco 's modify eagle 's medium supplement with fetal calf serum sigma unit ml penicillin and g ml streptomycin gibco-brl grand island ny .
 proliferation assay .
 proliferation assay be perform as previously describe briefly breast cancer cell cell in l be seed in a 96 well plate in dulbecco 's modify eagle 's medium contain fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin and the cell be stimulate with various concentration of leptin .
 in some experiment the cell be pretreated with either dimethyl sulfoxide dmso control or mol l ag825 for min .
 after incubation at 37c in co2 for 48 h mts solution promega madison wi be add into each well and after an additional 3 h culture the number of live cell be evaluate by measure the absorbance at nm .
 immunoprecipitation and western blot analysis .
 immunoprecipitation and western blot analysis be perform as previously describe .
 in brief cell be grow to to confluence in cm dish serum-starved for 24 h and then leptin be add to the culture .
 after stimulation with leptin for various time cellular protein lysate 1 ml tube be obtain and the protein be incubate with antibody against her2 l tube .
 immunoprecipitates be collect with protein a-agarose and immunoprecipitated protein be electrophoresed in polyacrylamide gel for 35 min at then the protein be transfer onto an immobilon transfer membrane millipore bedford ma for sequential incubation with reconstitute nonfat milk powder to block nonspecific site .
 thereafter the membrane be incubate with various dilution of mouse antiphosphotyrosine mab then horseradish peroxidase-labeled sheep anti-mouse igg before development with a standard ecl kit amersham buckinghamshire united kingdom .
 some cell be pretreated with mol l nmol l ag1478 or mol l ag825 for min before stimulation .
 all membrane be strip and immunoblotted with antibody against her2 as a control .
 er phosphorylation .
 cell lysate be electrophoresed in polyacrylamide gel for 45 min at then the protein be transfer onto an immobilon transfer membrane for sequential incubation with reconstitute nonfat milk powder to block nonspecific site dilution of rabbit monoclonal antiphospho-mapk antibody and then horseradish peroxidase-labeled donkey antirabbit igg prior to development with a standard ecl kit amersham .
 some cell be pretreated with l ag825 for min before stimulation .
 all membrane be strip and immunoblotted with antibody against erk2 as a control .
 statistical analysis .
 the result be statistically analyzed by student 's t-test and p-values be consider statistically significant .
 result leptin induces tyrosine phosphorylation of her2 in her2-expressing breast cancer cell line .
 the expression of her-2 and ob-r be examine in four breast cancer cell line .
 as show in 1 skbr3 express her2 at the high level .
 western blot with polyclonal anti-ob-r show that all four cell line express significant level of ob-r protein although the density and localization of the band vary among the cell .
 however ob-rb be significantly express in all cell line .
 therefore to investigate whether exogenously add leptin transactivated her2 we use skbr3 in the follow experiment .
 full-size image fig western blot of her2 and leptin receptor ob-r in human breast cancer cell .
 cell lysate of mcf7 t47d mda-mb231 and skbr3 be immuno blot with anti-her2 mab a or anti-ob-r polyclonal antibody b .
 bands run at around and kda correspond to the ob-rb and ob-ra form of the ob-r respectively .
 view within article .
 first skbr3 cell be incubate with ng ml leptin for 2 to min and phosphorylation of the her2 molecule be examine by immunoblotting with antiphosphotyrosine mab .
 as show in 2a leptin induce tyrosine phosphorylation of her2 and the phosphorylation level increase as early as 2 min but do not decline immediately .
 the enhance phosphorylation of her2 continue at least up to min .
 in reverse experiment immunoprecipitates with antiphosphotyrosine ab show similar reactivity against anti-her2 mab .
 full-size image 22k leptin induce sustain tyrosine phosphorylation of a skbr3 and t47d cell be serum starve for 24 h and then incubate with ng ml leptin for 2 to min .
 after cell lysis her2 be immunoprecipitated use anti-her2 mab and the immunoprecipitates be immunoblotted with antiphosphotyrosine mab .
 as a control the membrane be strip and immunoblotted with b the cell lysate be immunoprecipitated with antiphosphotyrosine antibody and immunoblotted with anti-her2 antibody .
 view within article .
 next we do the same experiment use t47d cell which express her2 at the moderate level .
 the result be the same as that of skbr3 cell .
 leptin enhances skbr3 proliferation via phosphorylation of her2 .
 next we examine the effect of exogenous leptin on the proliferation of skbr3 and t47d cell at a concentration of 5 to ng ml .
 as show in 3 leptin increase the proliferation of skbr3 in a dose-dependent manner and the effect be significant and maximal at ng ml p .
 and leptin at 5 to ng ml show no significant proliferative effect on t47d cell .
 in contrast a much high concentration of leptin ng ml significantly induce proliferation of t47d cell p .
 full-size image 27k leptin stimulate proliferation of breast cancer cell line via her2 activation .
 skbr3 and t47d cell be preincubated for min with either dmso open bar or mol l ag825 shade bar and cultured with the indicate concentration of leptin for 48 h .
 then cell proliferation be measure use mts assay .
 data be express as the percentage of control in the absence of leptin .
 data represent mean sem of six different experiment .
 p p .
 view within article .
 however of skbr3 with ag825 a her2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor significantly inhibit the growth-stimulating effect of leptin .
 at a physiological concentration mol l ag825 totally abrogate the effect of to ng ml leptin .
 in contrast ag825 do not significantly inhibit the growth-stimulating effect of leptin in t47d cell .
 this datum imply that leptin-induced proliferation in the breast cancer cell line skbr3 be correlated with her2 phosphorylation significantly .
 however leptin-induced proliferation be not so correlated with her2 phosphorylation significantly in t47d .
 transactivation of her2 be partially dependent on egfr and jak2 .
 to elucidate the mechanism of the transactivation we next perform several experiment use specific inhibitor .
 as show in 4a a her2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor ag825 at the same concentration mol l strongly inhibit leptin-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of her2 .
 preincubation with an egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitor ag1478 nmol l also reduce the level of her2 tyrosine phosphorylation although the inhibition be slightly little than that by ag825 .
 full-size image 22k leptin-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of her2 be dependent on egfr and jak2 .
 skbr3 cell be serum starve for 24 h pretreated with nmol l ag1478 mol l ag825 a or mol l b for min and stimulate for min with ng ml leptin .
 after cell lysis her2 be immunoprecipitated use anti-her2 mab and immunoprecipitates be immunoblotted with antiphosphotyrosine mab .
 the membrane be strip and immunoblotted with anti-her2 as a control .
 view within article .
 phosphorylation of the egfr family have be report to be closely relate to the jak-stat pathway .
 then we perform an experiment use a specific inhibitor of jak2 .
 as show in 4b at a concentration of mol l partially inhibit the leptin-induced phosphorylation of her2 in skbr3 suggest that jak2 be locate upstream of leptin-induced her2 transactivation .
 leptin-induced transactivation of her2 induces erk mapk activation .
 erk mapk be a key molecule in cellular response such as cell proliferation and invasion .
 we next investigate the molecular interaction between her2 and erk mapk in the leptin-induced signaling pathway .
 leptin ng ml induce phosphorylation of erk mapk which be significantly detect as early as 5 min after stimulation peak at 15 min and gradually decline thereafter .
 however with mol l ag825 strongly inhibit the phosphorylation of erk mapk in skbr3 .
 this suggest that her2 phosphorylation act upstream of erk mapk in the leptin-induced signaling pathway .
 full-size image 18k leptin-induced erk mapk phosphorylation be dependent on a skbr3 cell be serum starve for 24 h and incubate with ng ml leptin for 2 to min .
 after cell lysis the lysate be immunoblotted with anti-phospho-mapk b skbr3 cell be serum starve for 24 h pretreated with mol l ag825 or dmso for min and stimulate with ng ml leptin for 15 min .
 the cell lysate be immunoblotted with antiphospho-mapk mab .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 leptin be produce mainly in adipose tissue and play an essential role in regulate fat metabolism .
 recent report have demonstrate that the leptin receptor ob-r be positively express in human normal and malignant breast epithelial cell and that addition of leptin can stimulate the proliferation of both normal and malignant breast epithelial cell .
 moreover clinical study have show that serum leptin level be significantly elevate in breast cancer patient compare with control .
 this datum collectively support the hypothesis that leptin might be mechanically involve in the development and progression of obesity-related breast cancer .
 however the molecular mechanism of leptin signaling in malignant cell be not fully understand .
 crosstalk between different member of receptor family have become a well-established concept in signal transduction .
 tyrosine phosphorylation of various receptor tyrosine kinase in response to activation of many g protein-coupled receptor gpcr which be designate transactivation have be show to have important physiological consequence and have draw considerable attention in recent year .
 in addition to gpcr ligand stimulation of class i receptor by interleukin-6 growth hormone or prolactin have be report to induce tyrosine phosphorylation of egfr family member .
 this receptor have structural similarity to ob-r suggest the possible transactivation of the egfr family by leptin .
 in fact it have already be show that leptin can induce phosphorylation of egfr in esophageal and gastric cancer cell .
 the present study provide direct evidence that exogenous leptin can induce phosphorylation of her2 overexpressed in a human breast cancer cell line skbr3 .
 the same phenomenon be previously report in hek293t cell transfected with ob-ra or ob-rb .
 in the present study however we additionally find that exogenous leptin induce phosphorylation of erk mapk which be significantly inhibit by ag825 a specific inhibitor of her2 .
 moreover the same treatment with ag825 totally abrogate the growth-stimulatory effect of leptin in skbr3 .
 this finding strongly suggest that transactivation of her2 be implicate in the growth-stimulatory effect of leptin .
 since the expression of her-2 or ob-r be clinically associate with a poor outcome in breast cancer it be think that this two receptor system cooperatively promote the development and progression of breast cancer .
 exogenous leptin can also induce the phosphorylation of her2 in t47d .
 t47d be a estrogen receptor er -positive cell line and moderately express her2 .
 this result indicate that leptin induce the transactivation of her2 in er-positive cell .
 in experiment however the treatment with ag825 do not significantly reduce the growth-stimulatory effect of leptin in t47d .
 previous report suggest that leptin increase nuclear expression and activity of er in the absence of estradiol e2 which result in growth stimulation in mcf7 .
 the enhancement of growth stimulation in t47d might be attributed much strongly to the effect on er .
 it have be report that lysophosphatidic acid lpa induce rapid and transient expression of her2 as well as egfr .
 however leptin-induced phosphorylation of her2 show some difference from lpa-induced her2 phosphorylation in those study .
 leptin-induced her2 phosphorylation be detect in a few minute and continue for at least 2 h while lpa-induced her2 phosphorylation be detect only for several minute and decline to an undetectable level by 15 min after stimulation .
 moreover an egfr inhibitor ag1478 totally abrogate the her2 phosphorylation by lpa .
 in contrast ag1478 only partially inhibit her2 phosphorylation by leptin .
 this result seem reasonable since her2 be activate through form homodimer or heterodimer with egfr .
 much interestingly specific inhibition of jak2 partially inhibit the her2 phosphorylation by leptin which do not occur with her2 phosphorylation by lpa .
 the same inhibition pattern by exogenous prolactin be previously report in breast cancer cell .
 this finding collectively suggest that the ligand of type 1 receptor cause her2 transactivation by different mechanism from gpcr stimulation .
 recent report suggest that leptin increase both e-cadherin and vegf expression and through this pathway also stimulate the proliferation effect in breast cancer cell line .
 leptin-induced nuclear expression estrogen receptor er be also report to be relate to the growth stimulation in mcf7 .
 this fact suggest that leptin can stimulate cell growth through various signal cascade .
 however result indicate that this adipocytokine utilize her2 as a downstream signaling partner and promote the progression of breast cancer .
 the link between adiposity and breast cancer may be closely relate to her2 overexpression .
 therefore reduction of serum leptin level may be clinically beneficial especially in patient with ob-r- and her2-positive breast cancer .
 acknowledgment .
 the author thank m .
 chieko uchikawa for technical assistance .
 adenovirus adv a double-stranded linear dna virus have widely be use for clinical application because of the advantage be produce at high titer and high transduction efficiency in both proliferate and quiescent cell .
 adv infection to cell be mediate by high-affinity binding of fiber protein to a cell membrane protein know as the coxsackie adenovirus receptor car the primary receptor a member of the immunoglobulin receptor superfamily .
 recently the role of v integrin the secondary receptor and heparin sulfate the third receptor as receptor for adenovirus binding have be report but car receptor be still a major route of adenoviral infection .
 although adv have many advantage it be yet to be use for clinical application because of the follow restriction .
 one major limitation associate with gene therapy via viral vector require repeat treatment due to the development of a humoral immune response to the vector by the host .
 adv in general lack of replication ability require repetitive administration .
 consequently they can provoke serious innate and adaptive immune response and liver toxicity .
 another hurdle confront adv mediate gene therapy be non-specific distribution in tissue after in vivo gene transfer because of the relatively broad tissue expression of car .
 this issue impose an increase risk of toxicity due to vector dissemination of non-targeted cell and increase unwanted side effect such as vector-associated immunogenic toxicity .
 moreover they should be administer locally and repeatedly to maintain a long-term sustainable effect .
 today it be well know that immune response be cause by a dose dependent rise in neutralize antibody after primary administration .
 avoiding the neutralization of adv by antibody the much efficient strategy be to mask surface of adv by covalent attachment of the poly ethylene glycol peg .
 peg modification be a well-established technique to diminish protein protein interaction between therapeutic protein and cell in vivo .
 moreover pegylation provide with prolong circulation time in the bloodstream .
 it shield adv from immune response and it be employ as spacer to link targeting moiety .
 however pegylated adv peg adv still rely on the transduction on a non-specific site via a car-mediated viral infection mechanism .
 hence pegylation have result in limited binding and internalization of adv with consequently inefficient gene delivery to objective cell .
 moreover peg adv show significantly low expression level than adv .
 to resolve this problem the surface of peg adv be modify with the cell-specific targeting moiety such as rgd peptide protein and folate ligand to grant cell-specific retargeting .
 it be well know that human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 her2 neu be over-expressed in 25 of invasive breast cancer and expression be similar in primary tumor and corresponding metastasis .
 on the contrary expression in normal tissue be at a low level .
 thus anti-her2 neu monoclonal antibody mab i of interest as a potential targeting moiety of viral vector to breast cancer cell .
 herceptin trastuzumab a humanize recombinant anti-her2 neu mab can specifically bind to the membrane region of her2 neu with a high affinity inhibit signal transduction and cell proliferation .
 moreover have be approve as a therapeutic agent of breast cancer by fda and it show significant biostatic activity both as a single agent and the combination with traditional cytotoxic chemotherapy in the treatment of her2 neu over-expressing metastatic breast cancer patient .
 in this report we aim to demonstrate the effectiveness of a formulation of her-conjugated adv with a spacer of peg peg adv .
 be conjugate to the one terminal group of hetero-bifunctional peg molecule conjugate on the surface of adv contain gfp gene .
 enhancement in specificity and efficacy be comparatively evaluate as the extent of cell-specific gfp transduction use her2 neu positive mda-mb-435 cell mda-mb-468 cell and her2 neu deficient u251n cell for retargeting strategy .
 the her2 neu-mediated intracellular delivery system be schematically depict in morphology size and conjugation efficiency of prepare peg adv be characterize by transmission electron microscopy tem dynamic light scattering dls zeta potential and fast performance liquid chromatography fplc respectively .
 moreover the site-specific targeting characteristic of prepare peg adv be confirm by flow cytometry .
 the extent of immune response elicit by the surface modify adv be also analyzed by determine the amount of interleukin 6 release from macrophage cell .
 full-size image 67k schematic representation of peg adv conjugate and retargeting of adenoviral vector to her2 neu over-expressing cell peg adv transduce cell via the incorporate antibody-dependent car- v integrin- and heparin sulfate-independent pathway .
 view within article .
 material and .
 material .
 adv carry the gfp gene and herceptin 185 kda be obtain from yonsei cancer center .
 hetero-bifunctional poly ethylene glycol derivative nh2 peg cooh mw be purchase from nektar huntsville al .
 dithiobis sulfosuccinimidyl-propionate dtssp be purchase from pierce rockford il .
 1-ethyl-3- 3-dimethyl-aminopropyl -carbodiimide edc n-hydroxysuccinimide nhs l-lysine be purchase from sigma louis mo .
 cell culture medium and material be the product of gibco-brl grand island ny .
 mda-mb-435 mda-mb-468 and u251n cell be purchase from atcc manassas va .
 all other chemical be of analytical grade .
 generation of adenovirus express gfp .
 adv use be e1-deleted ad type 5 express gfp under the control of cytomegalovirus cmv promoter at e1 region of adenovirus .
 adv express gfp be propagate in 293 cell purify by cscl density purification .
 purified virion preparation be dialyzed against mm phosphate-buffered saline pbs sucrose and finally store at the number of viral particle be calculate from the measurement of optical density at nm where 1 absorbency unit be equivalent to viral particle per milliliter .
 preparation of peg adv .
 particle ml of adv contain the gfp gene be store in phosphate-buffered saline pbs w v sucrose .
 adv be pre-activated with dithiobis sulfosuccinimidyl-propionate dtssp at a molar ratio in m sodium phosphate buffer ph contain m nacl respectively .
 the reaction be carry out for min at room temperature .
 hetero-bifunctional poly ethylene glycol derivative nh2 peg cooh mw be add to the solution at a molar ratio of .
 after reaction for 2 h at room temperature the reaction of peg adv be terminate with addition of excess free l-lysine .
 then the product be purify by ultrafiltration with centricon membrane tube amicon mw cutoff to remove free peg residue .
 the purify peg adv be store at c until use .
 the synthetic scheme of peg adv conjugate be show in 2 a .
 the peg modification ratio be determine by a fluorescamine assay .
 to calculate the percent immobilization of peg on the surface of adv the remnant amount of surface amine group after peg immobilization be determine .
 full-size image 49k synthetic scheme of peg adv conjugate .
 view within article .
 synthesis of peg adv conjugate .
 the prepare peg adv be reactivate with 1-ethyl-3- 3-dimethyl-aminopropyl -carbodiimide edc and n-hydroxysuccinimide nhs at a molar ratio of in m sodium phosphate buffer ph contain m nacl .
 after activate for min at room temperature the reactant be ultrafiltrated with centricon membrane tube amicon mw cutoff to remove free edc and nhs residue .
 be add to the solution at a molar ratio and the reaction be carry out for 2 h at 4 then excess free l-lysine be add to terminate the reaction .
 finally intact particle be purify by size exclusion chromatography with sephacryl amersham bioscieces sweden .
 the purify peg adv be store at c until use .
 the synthetic scheme of peg adv conjugate be show in 2 b .
 the quantity of conjugation be determine use a protein assay bradford method bio-rad .
 preparation of au-labeled peg adv conjugate au peg adv to affirm the existence of conjugate on peg adv colloidal gold particle be labeled with anti-herceptin of peg adv conjugate .
 the colloidal gold particle nm be synthesize as report .
 the prepare gold particle be conjugate with anti-herceptin ab fitc-goat anti-human igg 81-7111 zymax south san francisco then this complex be bind to peg adv .
 briefly the prepare gold particle be adjust to ph by m k2co3 .
 the dilute anti-herceptin ab be incubate with the colloidal gold particle solution for 1 h at room temperature .
 then w w bsa solution be add to stabilize the colloidal gold particle and the mixture be incubate for an additional min .
 to remove un-reacted anti-herceptin ab the centrifugation be repeat and the precipitation be suspend in m sodium phosphate buffer ph contain m nacl bsa and nan3 .
 this au conjugate anti-herceptin ab be incubate with peg adv over 12 h at 4 .
 characterization of peg adv conjugate .
 identification of peg adv conjugate be confirm by fplc use mono s cation exchange column hr 5 5 amersharm on a bio-rad duo-flow system bio-rad laboratory consist of biofrac fraction collector rack f1 12 13 mm tube quadtec uv vis detector conductivity monitor and avr7-3 valvesample inject valve .
 the column be equilibrated with start buffer buffer a distil water .
 peg adv be load onto column and eluted with the loading buffer buffer b mm tris buffer ph .
 elution be achieve with ml linear gradient at a flow rate of 1 ml min .
 finally the column be wash with m nacl .
 all run be perform at room temperature .
 measurement of average size and surface charge .
 the size and surface charge of adv peg adv and peg adv be measure use dls zeta-potential analyzer els-z photal otsuka japan .
 an argon ion laser be operate at 488 nm as the light source .
 the size of the adv peg adv and peg adv be express as number-weighted mean diameter in nanometers .
 transmission electron microscopy tem image characterization of morphology the surface morphology of adv peg adv peg adv and au peg adv be observe by tem operate at kv use jem transmission electron microscopy jeol nikon japan .
 measurement of cell transduction .
 her2 neu positive breast cancer cell mda-mb-435 mda-mb-468 and her2 neu deficient brain cancer cell u251n be cultured in dulbecco 's modified eagle medium dmem supplement with fetal bovine serum fbs and penicillin streptomycin iu ml respectively .
 cell be maintain at 37 c in a humidify co2 incubator .
 mda-mb-435 cell well mda-mb-468 cell well and u251n cell well cell be seed on a 24 well plate .
 after 24 h each cell be infect with adv peg adv and peg adv .
 after 3 day the cell be observe by fluorescence microscopy olympus bx51 olympus optical tokyo japan with metamorph imaging system molecular devices usa .
 flow cytometry .
 to perform quantitative measurement of gfp expression level on the adv peg adv and peg adv infect cell mda-mb-435 mda-mb-468 and u251n cell be seed on a six-well plate 24 h before infection at cell density of and cell well respectively .
 at 72 h after the infection the cell be raise with the cell dissociation solution sigma st louis mo usa and wash with pbs three time .
 after pbs wash l of pbs be add to perform flow cytometry analysis with facscan beckton-dickinson sunnyvale usa use cellquest software beckton-dickinson .
 evaluation of immune response .
 murine raw macrophage cell be seed on a six-well plate 24 h before adv peg adv and peg adv infection at cell density of 1 well contain dmem supplement with fbs iu ml penicillin g sodium and g ml streptomycin sulfate .
 after 24 h the culture medium be replace with 1 ml of fresh medium contain each and vps of adv peg adv and peg adv .
 after 45 h post-infection the level of interleukin-6 release in the culture medium soup be determine by elisa rd quantikine mn .
 result and discussion .
 as show in 2 a to prepare peg adv conjugate peg be conjugate to adv via homo-bifunctional nhs-esters between n-terminal -amine group in adv surface and the primary amine group of a hetero-bifunctional peg derivates .
 the peg modification ratio use a fluorescamine assay show much than .
 then be immobilize on the purify peg adv use edc nhs couple agent .
 protein assay prove that much than molecule be conjugate on peg adv complex .
 the resultant peg adv conjugate be confirm by fplc .
 the output be separate by the ionic difference and linear gradient separation be perform on a mono s cation exchange column .
 first the individual characteristic peak of adv 9 min and min be identify respectively .
 the characteristic peak of peg adv be then observe at 9 min which be similar as the one for adv only because of the slight surface charge difference between adv and peg adv .
 the fplc datum of resultant peg adv show that the uncharged impurity include some small molecule a be eluted first follow by adv and peg adv b peg adv c and d successively .
 full-size image 25k ion exchange chromatograms of peg adv each peak indicate a the uncharged impurity include some small molecule b adv and peg adv c peg adv and d .
 view within article .
 the morphology of adv peg adv peg adv and au peg adv be observe by tem .
 in 4 tem image identify that the size of the pegylated adv be slightly increase in comparison with adv due to the presence of peg but the size difference due to existence be not observe in 4 c .
 moreover 4 d clearly identify the gold particle labeled on which imply that be well-conjugated on peg adv complex .
 the average size and size distribution of the adv peg adv and peg adv be also determine by dls .
 as show in 5 the average size of adv peg adv and peg adv be and nm respectively .
 this result also confirm the tem image that the size of pegylated adv be increase due to the hydrodynamic volume of peg chain on the surface of adv .
 in 5 the surface charge value of adv peg adv and peg adv be and mv respectively .
 the surface charge of and peg be and mv for reference .
 hence high positive surface charge on peg adv be due to the presence of and peg chain as expect .
 the conjugation of and peg produce a value of mv for surface charge of peg adv as compare to mv for naked adv .
 this result also confirm that peg be well-conjugated on the surface of adv .
 full-size image 54k transmission electron microscopy tem image of a adv b peg adv c peg adv and d au peg adv .
 view within article .
 full-size image 27k size distribution and zeta potential of adv peg adv and peg adv .
 view within article .
 to investigate the transduction efficiency adv peg adv and peg adv prepare under conjugation of same molar ratio of with the concentration of vps cell vps cell and vps cell be infect in mda-mb-435 mda-mb-468 and u251n cell line respectively .
 in 6 comparative gfp expression level be measure by the fluorescence intensity analysis .
 the gfp intensity datum clearly demonstrate that the transduction efficiency of peg adv depended on the her2 neu expression level of the infect cell .
 in 6 the gfp intensity on mda-mb-435 cell exhibit the high value and follow by the one on mda-mb-468 cell .
 however the increase of gfp intensity be not observe against u251n cell .
 this imply that the affinity of peg adv on her2 neu positive breast cancer cell be predominant .
 full-size image 112k fluorescence microscope image of cell follow by the incubation with a adv b peg adv and c peg adv .
 view within article .
 to quantify the gfp intensity of all virus transduction we perform flow cytometry analysis in 7 .
 in u251n brain cancer cell the intensity peak of peg adv hardly shift to right due to the negative character upon her2 neu .
 in comparison with u251n the gfp intensity peak of peg adv in her2 neu positive cell line mda-mb-435 and mda-mb-468 shift to much right .
 moreover the gfp intensity of peg adv observe be significantly enhance as compare to peg adv .
 the gfp expression percent level of peg adv be reduce to and against the naked adv in mda-mb-435 and mda-mb-468 cell line respectively .
 in contrast the peg adv exhibit and against naked adv in mda-mb-435 and mda-mb-468 cell line respectively .
 moreover the increase of gfp expression level for u251n cell line be not observe in both peg adv and peg adv .
 this result also clearly reveal that peg adv be successfully retargeted to her2 neu express cell .
 this noteworthy result indicate the transduction efficiency of peg adv against her2 neu positive cancer cell be significantly enhance via her2 neu specific targeting route .
 full-size image 69k transduction efficiency by flow cytometry analysis of adv peg adv peg adv .
 view within article .
 we evaluate how pegylation might attenuate il-6 production from macrophage cell as proinflammatory by infect raw macrophage cell with each and viral particle vps of adv peg adv and peg adv in vitro respectively .
 macrophage and kupper cell be both possible source of proinflamatory cytokine that be produce after injection of adv vector .
 the il-6 release from this cell be the important cytokine relate to the extent of immune response .
 raw cell infect with two vps dose release il-6 in culture supernatant and this release il-6 concentration be then measure .
 in case of vps treatment adv peg adv and peg adv infect raw cell release il-6 to the concentration of pg g pg g and pg g respectively .
 also in case of vps treatment the il-6 concentration be detect as pg g pg g and pg g respectively .
 this noteworthy result show that the il-6 concentration of peg adv and peg adv be decrease compare to those of adv .
 moreover the result exhibit a dependency of il-6 concentration on viral particle dose for all virus infect raw cell .
 however although the il-6 expression of treat peg adv be decrease compare to those of adv much increase il-6 than peg adv be examine .
 in this result it seem that herceptin itself have the immunogenic characteristic because of antibody size composition component .
 full-size image 27k proinflammatory il-6 expression release from macrophage cell after infection with adv peg adv and peg adv .
 view within article .
 nevertheless this reduce amount of il-6 release from macrophage cell suggest that pegylation of adv minimize the adverse immune response problem often associate with adv gene therapy .
 previous work demonstrate that pegylation of adv effectively mask viral surface and shield the adv vector in immune system .
 in conclusion the datum suggest that antibody conjugate pegylation of adv reduce innate immune response to resolve the immunogenicity problem of adv .
 we far plan to examine the anti-tumor efficacy and immunogenic system in vivo mouse model .
 consequently the result of transduction efficiency clearly demonstrate that the affinity of the peg adv conjugate on the target cell be significantly enhance which ensure minimize unwanted side effect such as vector-associated immunogenic toxicity let alone increase a long-term sustainable effect with peg envelop .
 conclusion .
 we synthesize the peg adv conjugate for retargeting gene therapy to breast cancer cell .
 this conjugate vector be find to be feasible to overcome the limitation factor associate with immune response and targeting for adenoviral gene delivery .
 peg adv be capable of enhance transduction efficiency onto the breast cancer cell via her2 neu as a targeting moiety and also envelop of peg on the surface of adv reduce the extent of immune response .
 this study may render target specific gene delivery use adenoviral vector for many clinical application .
 further study on the synergistic efficacy of therapeutic antibody and gene therapy via peg adv for the breast cancer treatment in vivo level be prospect .
 acknowledgment .
 this work be support by kosef through national core research center for nanomedical technology and republic of korea .
 much epidemiological study of the aetiology of breast cancer have focused on event during woman 's reproductive year .
 however observation of the association between intrauterine exposure to radiation and leukaemia and other tumour in and the association between intrauterine exposure to diethylstilbestrol and vaginal adenocarcinoma in adolescence2 suggest that the stage for carcinogenesis might be set as early as the perinatal period .
 trichopoulos and colleagues3 postulate that in-utero exposure to high amount of endogenous oestrogen might contribute to the development of breast cancer and that perinatal factor might be surrogate measure of intrauterine oestrogen exposure .
 other factor include high intrauterine exposure to growth loss of imprint of the insulin-like growth factor 2 igf2 gene and formation of cancer stem-cells have also be suggest to have a role in mammary .
 perinatal factor that have be study in association with risk of breast cancer include birthweight and other measure of birth size parental age at delivery gestational age twin membership radiation other pregnancy-related complication and maternal characteristic .
 much of this perinatal factor such as pre-eclampsia infection twin membership birthweight maternal use of diethylstilbestrol and maternal age be associate with alter concentration of maternal endogenous some perinatal factor might be associate with intrauterine exposure to growth hormoneseg birthweight and birth we have previously publish a systematic review of all study on the association between birthweight and risk of breast cancer publish between april 1 1998 and dec 31 .
 we note that high birthweight be associate with a relative risk rr of 123 ci 112 134 for breast in the current study we summarise the available evidence on the association between risk of breast cancer and maternal age paternal age gestational age birth length maternal treatment with diethylstilbestrol twin membership pre-eclampsia or eclampsia and other intrauterine factor .
 method search strategy and selection criterion .
 we search pubmed for study publish up to june 21 .
 the search strategy use the follow search term breast cancer in combination with birthweight maternal age paternal age gestational age birth length diethylstilbestrol twin or multiple birth radiation infection neonatal jaundice pre-eclampsia or eclampsia maternal diet or maternal weight gain .
 we include all study that provide original analysis on the association between perinatal factor and invasive breast cancer and exclude review case report or study on other factor or outcome .
 all identify study be cross-referenced for study miss by the pubmed search .
 we use the software revman to generate forest plot and summary effect estimate for each perinatal factor .
 we use a fixed-effects model and weigh each study by the inverse of variance .
 because we inputted the rr and se into the revman software on the log scale rr and ci might differ slightly from those in the publish paper because of round error .
 for the summary of each total or subtotal we provide the 2 test statistic for heterogeneity across study with degree of freedom and p value the statistic i2 that measure the extent of inconsistency in finding and the test for overall effect z statistic with p value .
 if there be significant heterogeneity across study ie when no summary effect estimate be calculate .
 we attempt to include datum from all identify paper on each perinatal factor in the meta-analysis .
 study which be not include in the meta-analysis be still list in the review table .
 if population overlap but one be not contain in the other both study be include .
 for study in which categorical exposure variable be use we compare the high with the low category unless indicate otherwise .
 a meta-analysis combine publish study face the challenge that different study on the same topic might provide different comparison for example cut-off point to define extreme category might be choose differently .
 a recalculation of comparison be generally not possible without knowledge of the variance-covariance-matrix .
 therefore we combine comparison of extreme category across study if definition be similar .
 and greenland11 have warn of the inappropriate use of meta-analysis to produce a single estimate of effect from disparate study finding .
 the forest plot and summary effect estimate provide in this report should be interpret as a representation of potential source of disparity and conflict between review study instead of a simplified study synthesis .
 for each prenatal factor we do an overall meta-analysis for woman of all age regardless of menopausal status and sub-group meta-analyses by menopausal status at diagnosis .
 in the overall meta-analyses we do not include study that only include premenopausal or postmenopausal woman or study that only present sub-group analysis finding by menopausal status .
 this study be only include in the sub-group meta-analyses by menopausal status .
 role of the funding source .
 the project be support by fund from the susan g komen for the cure .
 the funding source have no involvement in datum collection analysis interpretation or overall study design .
 fx and kbm have access to the raw datum .
 fx have the final responsibility to submit for publication .
 result .
 57 publish study that assess association between perinatal factor and the risk of breast cancer be identify and 52 be include in the analysis .
 three study be exclude from the analysis on maternal age because no rr estimate or ci on the rr be one study15 be exclude from the analysis of maternal age stratified by menopausal status because of absence of ci on the rr one study16 be exclude from the analysis on gestational age because the study population be contain in another update three study on diethylstilbestrol treatment be exclude because the study population be the same as that use in the much recent and one study22 on twin membership be exclude because the rr be not provide .
 however some of the finding of the meta-analyses have not be report here because of substantial heterogeneity between study .
 in this case only the p value for heterogeneity have be report .
 publication bias be assess by use of funnel plot figure 1 which suggest that small study with null result might be miss on birth length and dizygotic twin membership in relation to the risk of breast cancer .
 full-size image 58k high-quality image 363k figure funnel plot show publication bias for meta-analyses of paternal age birth length twin membership dizygotic twin membership and pre-eclampsia or eclampsia in relation to risk of breast cancer in daughter .
 view within article .
 since the completion of review on birthweight and breast five additional study have be publish on this topic include three cohort study and two case control finding from this five study suggest an increase risk of breast cancer in woman with high birthweight and the association be significant in three of the birthweight be much strongly associate with premenopausal breast cancer in two whereas a strong association with postmenopausal breast cancer be note in the other finding from this study be mostly consistent with previously publish study that lend support to high birthweight as a risk factor for breast cancer especially in premenopausal an update meta-analysis after integrate the newly publish study generate a summary rr associate with high birthweight of 115 ci 121 p for degree of for breast cancer regardless of menopausal status .
 the much plausible mechanism underlie a positive association between maternal age and risk of breast cancer in the daughter be high intrauterine exposure to endogenous oestrogen .
 concentration of oestrogen in maternal blood during pregnancy have be show to be high in old we identify 15 case control study that assess association between maternal age at delivery and daughter 's risk of breast cancer and seven cohort study table 1 .
 of 11 study that assess association between maternal age and risk of breast cancer in daughter regardless of menopausal status of daughter at increase maternal age be find to be associate with increase risk of breast cancer in daughter in nine and the association be statistically significant in four of the the summary rr of all of the cohort study be 113 ci 125 p for degree of .
 the summary effect estimate be not calculate for case control study because of significant heterogeneity degree of .
 finding from study that separately assess premenopausal breast cancer summary rr 111 124 p for degree of and postmenopausal breast cancer summary rr 115 126 p for degree of have also suggest that high maternal age be associate with increase risk of breast cancer in daughter .
 the cut-off above which there be an increase risk of breast cancer range from middle-to-late third decade 25 year of life to early fourth decade 31 35 year of table .
 published study on maternal age at delivery and daughter 's risk of breast cancer .
 p for trenddaughters with breast cancer nage at diagnosis yearscontrols or population n case control study rothman et le marchand et age 33 year at janerich et thompson et 543114 parous daughter yearsna2492na2687 nulliparous daughter yearsna499na457 parous and nulliparous daughter pool for each 15 year of increase in maternal agena2991na3144 sanderson et al34 overall study 1na74621 overall study 64439 ekbom et 582 woman age newcomb et 32 for patient and 32 for control premenopausal and postmenopausal 1121 weiss et innes et range 14 titus-ernstoff et mellemkjaer et hodgson et al41na26318 74235 choi et 48 sd barba et al27na82635 premenopausal womenna259na296 postmenopausal womenna567na617 park et patient age patient age cohort study colditz et 55 at baseline year follow-up zhang et al33na14929 62 at first examination 38 year follow-up 2662 hemminki et al37na887715 5337877 mogren et include man hilakivi-clarke et al12na177135 patient age mccormack et al13na35963 patient age 296 patient age xue et 55 at baseline 26 year follow-up .
 full-size table .
 available .
 for or rr hr sir and ci see webtable .
 view within article .
 we note that daughter born to old mother be much likely to have old father and little likely to be the first-born of the mother .
 therefore the association mention above might be confound if paternal age and birth order be not control for .
 an association between high maternal age and increase risk of breast cancer in daughter persist in all seven study that include paternal age as a potential and the association remain statistically significant in three of the in all 11 study that study birth order as a potential confounder a positive association persist in ten of the and remain statistically significant in four many other early-life exposure include gestational age birthweight pregnancy-related complication parental socioeconomic factor year of birth parental smoking twin membership and maternal hormone use have be adjust for and adjustment for this factor often do not affect appreciably the effect estimate of maternal age at delivery and risk of breast cancer .
 a high incidence of autosomal dominant disorder have be note in child born to old father much frequent single-base substitution and a high number of structural chromosomal anomaly in spermatozoon have be suggest as possible since the number of cell division in spermatogenesis be much large than that in oogenesis and all spermatogenesis-related cell division unlike those in oogenesis continue after error in dna copying be much likely to occur in the paternal than in the maternal germ line .
 furthermore the dna-repair activity and apoptosis of germ cell in response to mutagen decline with paternal while the dna repair system of oocytes be much efficient and independent of maternal previous study have suggest that advance paternal age at delivery might increase cancer risk in offspring because of accumulation of germ-cell we identify six case control study and four cohort study table 2 that assess the association between paternal age and risk of breast cancer in daughter .
 older paternal age at delivery be associate with a high risk of breast cancer in daughter in five out of seven study regardless of menopausal status of daughter with breast and the association be statistically significant in three of the study figure 2 .
 the summary rr be 112 119 p for degree of .
 finding from two study that assess separately the risk for premenopausal breast cancer suggest a positive association and a large summary rr of 148 p for degree of .
 finding for risk of postmenopausal breast cancer be not report separately in the study .
 table .
 published study on paternal age at delivery and daughter 's risk of breast cancer .
 p for trenddaughters with breast cancer nage of daughter at diagnosis yearscontrols or population n case control study le marchand et janerich et newcomb et 319 for case and 318 for control premenopausal and post menopausal 1121 innes et range 14 hodgson et al41na26318 74235 choi et 48 sd cohort study colditz et 55 at baseline year follow-up zhang et al33na14929 62 at first assessment 38 year follow-up 2662 hemminki et al37na887715 5337877 xue et 55 at 773 .
 full-size table .
 available .
 for or rr hr sir and ci see webtable .
 view within article .
 full-size image 35k high-quality image 287k figure meta-analysis of study on paternal age and daughter 's risk of breast cancer .
 incidence ratio .
 squares represent hr or or sir .
 diamonds represent summary hr or or sir .
 line represent ci .
 hr or sir and ci be generate by revman through generic inversed variance method and use in this analysis .
 rr of breast cancer for continuous increment of paternal age provide by this study be consistently transform into rr for each increase of 15 year in paternal age to make it comparable to other study that use categorical datum .
 view within article .
 in eight study that control for maternal age as a potential advance paternal age remain positively associate with risk of breast cancer in six of the study and the association be significant in two adjustment for maternal age substantially attenuate the association between paternal age and daughter risk of breast cancer in three because maternal age and paternal age be closely associate adjustment might introduce collinearity and consequently underestimate the effect of maternal and paternal age .
 three study attempt to resolve this underestimation by cross-stratifying the analysis by maternal and paternal age and compare risk of breast cancer across combination of parental the independent effect of maternal age remain in all three and this effect be strong in study with adequate sample size for each combination while the independent effect of paternal age be suggest by one study31 and be little clear in the other two further adjustment for birth order and other early-life exposure be make in much study and the adjustment do not seem to substantially change the effect estimate of paternal age .
 the extent of increase in postnatal gonadotropin depend on the extent of hypothalamic maturation in utero and therefore on the gestational age .
 compared with full-term female infant female infant born before the 33rd week of gestation have serum follicle-stimulating hormone fsh concentration ten to time high and serum luteinising hormone three to four time high in the first postnatal the raise postnatal serum concentration of gonadotropin in preterm female infant might lead to ovarian hyperstimulation which have be postulate to increase oestradiol concentration and increase the risk of breast additionally female infant who survive premature birth have be show to be much likely to have accelerate prenatal growth and enhance mitotic division which might be associate with a high risk of breast cancer later in .
 gestational age or preterm delivery and risk of breast cancer later in life have be study in eight case control study and four cohort study table 3 .
 regardless of age of cancer onset short gestational age or premature birth be associate with a high risk of breast cancer in four study and a decrease risk of breast cancer in four but the association with increase risk7 or decrease risk55 attain statistical significance in only two study .
 the summary rr for cohort study suggest no association between gestational age and risk of breast cancer rr 126 p for degree of and finding from case control study be significantly heterogeneous p for degree of .
 data for low gestational age or premature birth suggest that the risk of breast cancer be in opposite direction in study that assess premenopausal woman separately summary rr 117 148 p for degree of and study that assess postmenopausal woman separately summary rr 122 p for degree of but this finding be not significant .
 table .
 published study on gestational age at delivery and risk of breast cancer .
 p for trendwomen with breast cancer nage at diagnosis yearscontrols or population n case control le marchand et ekbom et 582 woman sanderson et al34 study 1na74621 study 64439 innes et al38na484mean range 14 park et nested case control michels et woman age 45 178 woman age 45 169 woman age case control of opposite-sex twin kaijser et of woman age case control of like-sex twin hubinette et al55nabetween-pair comparison 8736 woman age comparison 87 cohort mogren et al22na57na152 include man ekbom et al16 overallna127 of 12 woman age patient age yearsna7nana kaijser et al17na3919 of early onset year na19nana troisi et .
 full-size table .
 available .
 for or sir rr or ci see webtable .
 view within article .
 since birthweight have be positively associate with risk of breast cancer later in life5 and be negatively associate with premature birth birthweight be probably a negative confounder of the association between low gestational age and risk of breast cancer .
 finding from study that control for birthweight as a potential confounder do not differ substantially from finding of study that do not consider further adjustment for birth order family history and other early-life exposure be also account for without appreciably affect the finding .
 the study review use cut-off point for gestational age that range from 32 week or little to under 39 since gestational age be highly correlated with cumulative intrauterine exposure to oestrogen growth hormone and other factor stratify study by gestational age and assess study in each stratum would be preferable .
 however the small number of available study do not allow this approach .
 birth length be strongly associate with therefore mechanism that explain the association between birthweight and the risk of breast cancer might also account for any effect of birth length .
 similar to birthweight birth length have be positively associate with oestrogen concentration in maternal nonetheless finding from a study58 based on the danish medical birth register suggest that birth length be positively associate with height in adulthood even after adjust for birthweight whereas an association between birthweight and height disappear after adjust for birth length .
 the association between birth length and heightheight be an establish risk factor for breast cancer suggest that birth length might affect risk of breast cancer through pathway independent of birthweight that be much closely involve in regulate growth and anthropometric factor throughout life .
 the association between long birth length and high breast-cancer risk be assess in four case control and four cohort study table 4 .
 meta-analyses of study in premenopausal and postmenopausal woman provide a summary rr of 128 111 148 p for degree of figure 3 .
 finding from all review study suggest that long birth length be associate with increase risk of breast cancer in two study this association be statistically significant figure 3 .
 two study separately assess this association in premenopausal and postmenopausal breast the finding suggest a large association in premenopausal woman with breast cancer summary rr 121 337 p for degree of than in postmenopausal woman with breast cancer summary rr 138 192 p for degree of .
 table .
 published study on birth length and risk of breast cancer .
 p for trendwomen with breast cancer nage at diagnosis yearscontrols or population n case control ekbom et 582 woman age vatten et range 27 nested case control ekbom et woman age 168 woman age 64 78 age 651197 case control of same-sex twin hubinette et al55 between-pair comparisonna8736 of 96 woman age within-pair comparisonna96na96 cohort andersson et range for study population 28 hilakivi-clarke et woman age mccormack et al13na35963 of 359 woman age vatten et of 312 woman age median 49 range 25 patient age yearsna167nana patient age yearsna145nana .
 full-size table .
 available .
 for or hr or ci see webtable .
 view within article .
 full-size image 36k high-quality image 294k figure meta-analysis of study on birth length and risk of breast cancer .
 incidence ratio .
 squares represent hr or or sir .
 diamonds represent summary hr or or sir .
 line represent ci .
 hr or sir and ci be generate by revman through the generic inversed variance method and use in this analysis .
 view within article .
 the effect estimate of the association between birth length and risk of breast cancer be similar to that of birthweight and risk of breast when birthweight be include as a potential confounder in two the association between birth length and breast-cancer risk remain statistically significant in one of this conversely the association between birthweight and breast cancer be remove after birth length be take into account .
 adjustment for head circumference in one study13 only slightly attenuate the association between birth length and risk of breast cancer .
 adjustment for other perinatal factor and family history of breast cancer do not appreciably change the effect estimate .
 none of the available study assess the role of height as an intermediate variable .
 diethylstilbestrol be a synthetic oestrogen develop to support a pregnancy threaten by miscarriage or premature labour .
 according to the center for disease control and prevention atlanta ga usa an estimate 5 million pregnant woman and fetuses be expose to diethylstilbestrol between 1938 and because of the association between intrauterine exposure to diethylstilbestrol and adenocarcinoma of the vagina in in 1971 the us food and drug administration issue a drug bulletin advise physician to stop prescribe diethylstilbestrol to pregnant prenatal exposure to large amount of oestrogen might be associate with an increase risk of breast cancer later in as an oestrogen supplement diethylstilbestrol use during pregnancy provide the opportunity to study the association between exogenous oestrogen exposure in utero and subsequent risk of breast cancer .
 few case control and cohort study have be undertake to assess this association table 5 .
 of this four study be based on three exist cohort the national cooperative diethylstilbestrol adenosis the dieckmann randomised clinical trial of diethylstilbestrol undertake at the university of chicago in 1951 and a large private infertility practice in massachusetts finding from all four study do not find a significant increase in breast-cancer risk in woman who be expose to diethylstilbestrol in utero but a statistically significant increase in breast-cancer risk after the age of year be associate with exposure to diethylstilbestrol .
 since we exclude the two early study and the study that assess cancer in from meta-analysis no overall analysis be do .
 the remain study21 have an overall rr of 228 and an rr of 187 483 for diagnosis of breast cancer in postmenopausal woman .
 from three study that separately assess premenopausal breast the summary rr be 137 218 p for degree of .
 table .
 published study on diethylstilbestrol exposure in pregnancy and daughter 's risk of breast cancer .
 p for trenddaughters with breast cancer nage at diagnosis yearscontrols or population n case control study weiss et al36na53445497 sanderson et cohort study hatch et of 38 woman age patient age patient age yearsna18nana palmer et al19na5824 of 58 woman age patient age yearsna24nana patient age yearsna34nana palmer et premenopausalna47nana postmenopausalna24nana troisi et .
 full-size table .
 available .
 for or rr or ci see webtable .
 view within article .
 several important early-life exposure have be suggest to be potential confounder in publish study the association between diethylstilbestrol and risk of breast cancer do not seem to be substantially change by adjustment for such factor include gestational age at first exposure to .
 compared with singleton pregnancy twin pregnancy might involve the release of almost twice the concentration of pregnancy-related hormone include human chorionic and human placenta dizygotic twin might be expose to large amount of pregnancy-related hormone than monozygotic twins74 because of the presence of two placenta as oppose to the sharing of one placenta .
 furthermore oestrogen be lipophilic and consequently can pass into the placenta and enter fetal circulation .
 therefore the co-twin of a dizygotic twin pregnancy might be expose to high amount of oestrogen than a singleton or co-twin of a monozygotic twin pregnancy .
 however twin might be expose to hormone for short time than singleton because twin be usually deliver after a short gestation to avoid pregnancy-related complication .
 the association between twin membership and risk of breast cancer have be assess in eight case control study and six cohort study table 6 .
 five of this study assess this association regardless of menopausal status at diagnosis of breast cancer but both positive association and inverse association be note .
 the summary rr estimate suggest that twin membership be associate with a decrease risk of breast cancer that be of marginal statistical significance summary rr p for degree of figure 4 .
 no association be record by study that assess premenopausal breast cancer separately summary rr 118 p for degree of .
 of this neither the cohort studies79 nor the case control study note a significant association between twin membership and breast cancer rr degree of summary rr 113 169 p for degree of respectively .
 we also undertake a separate meta-analysis on study that assess monozygotic twin and we note no association between twin membership and breast cancer summary rr p for degree of and no association be record in cohort study summary rr p for degree of or case control study summary rr 135 p for degree of .
 finding from cohort study summary rr 114 p for degree of and case control study summary rr 148 216 p for degree of that analyse dizygotic twin separately suggest a modest but significant increase risk of breast cancer associate with this type of twin membership figure 5 although combination of cohort and case control study suggest significant heterogeneity of finding p for degree of .
 table .
 published study on twin membership and risk of breast cancer .
 p for trendwomen with breast cancer nage at diagnosis yearscontrols or population n case control hsieh et 17 twin 352641 33 twin premenopausalna248 7 twin na782 twin postmenopausalna622 twin na1859 23 twin sanderson et al34 study 1na74621 study 64439 swerdlow et al77na15544155 co-twin co-twin same co-twin co-twin opposite co-twin ekbom et age 582 woman age swerdlow et national twin birth weiss et innes et al38na484mean age range 14 park et age of patient yearsna691na722 age of patient yearsna1647na1754 cohort braun et al76na254 monozygotic twin 486 dizygotic monozygotic twin dizygotic twin mogren et al22no association57na152 include man verkasalo et al79na66 monozygotic twin 179 dizygotic monozygotic twin 8868 dizygotic twin cerhan et 6929197 iversen et al81na376na23 334 hemminki et al82na276 same-sex twin 165 opposite-sex 6662574 .
 full-size table .
 available .
 for or hr or ci see webtable .
 view within article .
 full-size image high-quality image figure meta-analysis of study on twin membership include monozygotic and dizygotic and risk of breast cancer .
 view within article .
 full-size image 35k high-quality image 283k figure meta-analysis of study on dizygotic twin membership and risk of breast cancer .
 hr or sir and ci be generate by revman through the generic inversed variance method and use in this analysis .
 summary estimate be not provide because of statistically significant heterogeneity .
 view within article .
 two other study attempt to assess the role of zygosity of twin in breast-cancer development .
 one of this study compare risk of breast cancer in dizygotic twin with that in monozygotic and the other study compare the risk in opposite-sex twin with same-sex twin to estimate zygosity when this be not the finding do not show a difference in risk of breast cancer accord to zygosity .
 apart from the concentration of hormone during pregnancy monozygotic twin and dizygotic twin might differ in other aspect .
 for example dizygotic twin be much often conceive by tall woman overweight woman old woman or non-hispanic black since risk of breast cancer have also be associate with maternal and anthropometric factors59 that be partly heritable this factor which be not adjust in the review study might confound the association between dizygotic twin membership and risk of breast cancer .
 in the past year the number of multiple birth have increase because of the use of assist reproductive this phenomenon might be too recent to assess as a risk factor for breast cancer in daughter but future study might also question the potential effect of in-vitro fertilisation and relevant parental characteristic as potential confounder in analyse the association between multiple birth and risk of breast cancer especially in young woman .
 the etiology of pregnancy-induced hypertension with oedema proteinuria and seizure eclampsia or without seizure pre-eclampsia be unclear but in woman with eclampsia and pre-eclampsia blood88 and urine89 oestrogen concentration be low than in those with normal pregnancy .
 similar to twin pregnancy labour might be induce for woman with eclampsia or pre-eclampsia to decrease maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality .
 therefore daughter born to woman with pre-eclampsia or eclampsia be much likely have short gestational age and low cumulative exposure to pregnancy hormone than those born after normal pregnancy .
 maternal pre-eclampsia or eclampsia during pregnancy be assess as a risk factor for breast cancer in daughter in five case control study and one cohort study22 table 7 .
 of this three study assess the association regardless of menopausal status and of this two study record decrease risk for pre-eclampsia or eclampsia and breast cancer summary rr borderline significant heterogeneity figure 6 .
 finding from study that analyse premenopausal breast cancer separately suggest no overall association summary rr 165 p for degree of .
 none of the study study postmenopausal breast cancer separately .
 table .
 published study on pre-eclampsia or eclampsia and daughter 's risk of breast cancer .
 or or sir ci daughters with breast cancer nage at diagnosis yearscontrols or population n case control study le marchand et yes v noor 346 15342461 ekbom et al7 yes v noor 582 woman age sanderson et al67 yes v noor 15 innes et al38 yes v noor 227 484mean range 14 nested case control study ekbom et al6 yes v noor 458212 age 168 age 64 78 age 651197 cohort mogren et al22na57na152 include man nosir 125 .
 yessir 328 .
 full-size table .
 available .
 incidence ratio .
 comparison between actual and expect number of daughter with cancer be based on an external reference .
 view within article .
 full-size image 27k high-quality image 225k figure meta-analysis of study on maternal pre-eclampsia or eclampsia and daughter 's risk of breast cancer .
 hr or sir and ci be generate by revman through the generic inversed variance method and use in this analysis .
 view within article .
 since mother with pre-eclampsia or eclampsia during pregnancy be much likely to have multiple pregnancy high body-mass index before pregnancy and be this factor need to be control in the analysis because they might also affect daughter risk of breast cancer .
 the two study that provide the strong support for an inverse association between pre-eclampsia and risk of breast cancer be from sweden but this study population partly overlap .
 further research be warrant to confirm this association .
 the effect of several other perinatal factor on risk of breast cancer have also be study .
 however the currently available evidence be sparse .
 fetuses be especially sensitive to exposure to ionising the effect of in-utero exposure to ionising radiation from the atomic bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki in japan on risk of cancer later in life have be assess however finding on breast cancer be not report researchers of this study report high incidence of cancer in japanese womenup to the age of 38 yearswho be expose in-utero especially for childhood cancer than in woman who be not however the increase do not persist after another 5 year of follow-up possibly because background cancer incidence increase as the population data on early-life exposure and breast-cancer risk from this population be available the rr of breast cancer be high for woman who be expose to radiation from atomic-bomb explosion up to about year of age compare with woman who be expose at old age and the risk of breast cancer increase with young age at .
 neonatal jaundice have also be associate with a high risk of breast cancer odd ratio or 216 127 367 however datum be only available from one study .
 jaundice onset within the first 24 h after birth be mainly cause by in-utero infection .
 although much research be need to establish whether neonatal jaundice be associate with increase risk of breast cancer some study suggest that oestrogen exposure might have a role because high concentration of oestrogen have be measure in infant with probably due to impair liver function .
 the role of maternal diabetes on the risk of breast cancer in daughter have be assess in one but no association be note standardised incidence ratio sir 128 .
 sanderson and co-workers67 report an increase risk of breast cancer in daughter of mother who have high weight gain during pregnancy compare with those who gain little than 7 kg or 15 11 21 for a gain of 11 15 kg and or 12 17 for a gain of 16 kg .
 since high weight gain during pregnancy be associate with high this find be consistent with that of increase risk of breast cancer in woman with high sanderson and colleagues67 also assess maternal coffee consumption and alcohol intake and report no association with risk of breast cancer in daughter .
 discussion .
 review of 57 study suggest that increase birthweight birth length maternal age and paternal age be positively associate with an increase risk of breast cancer while maternal pre-eclampsia and twin membership be associate with a decrease risk of breast cancer .
 the association might be modify by menopausal status for some factor and birthweight and birth length seem to be much closely associate with premenopausal breast cancer .
 finding for several factor remain inconclusive and provide question for far research .
 neonatal jaundice be suggest to be associate with breast cancer but current datum be too sparse to draw any conclusion .
 monozygotic twin membership and dizygotic twin membership seem to be associate with different risk for develop breast cancer ie no risk for monozygotic twin and modest increase risk for dizygotic twin but the finding be inconsistent and the underlie mechanism remain unclear .
 although gestational age be not associate with risk of breast cancer overall premenopausal and postmenopausal breast cancer might be affect differently by gestational age although finding for risk be not significant .
 furthermore the role of some of the much modifiable perinatal factor such as maternal weight gain maternal pre-pregnancy weight and maternal diet require far study .
 one of the major challenge of the assessment of intrauterine factor and risk of chronic disease later in life be the collection of reliable datum for the perinatal period .
 some of the studiesespecially those from scandinavian countriesused datum from birth registry and birth record which should keep misclassification at a minimum and other study use personal interview or mail questionnaire .
 data from birth record have be use to validate self-report .
 the underlie mechanism of association between perinatal factor and risk of breast cancer in late life still need to be elucidate but if intrauterine concentration of endogenous oestrogen and other pregnancy hormone be involve in this association separate assessment of breast cancer accord to oestrogen receptor and progesterone receptor status might provide additional datum .
 such datum be currently sparse .
 although several risk factor for breast cancer have be identify only a restrict number of breast cancer be attributable to recognised risk broadening the scope of research might yield additional important information on the aetiology and of way to prevent breast cancer .
 finding from this meta-analysis suggest that the entire lifecourse of a woman 's life include prenatal experience might be relevant for future breast-cancer risk .
 research effort might focus on ascertain the much important window of susceptibility to identify new opportunity for prevention .
 future study need to confirm the importance of early-life exposure for the risk of breast cancer and identify underlie mechanism .
 contributors .
 km design the study seek funding review the report and provide statistical advice .
 fx do the datum analysis review publish study and write the report .
 conflict of interest .
 the author declare no conflict of interest .
 acknowledgment .
 preparation of this report be support by susan g komen for the cure as part of the environmental factor and breast cancer science review project lead by silent spring institute with collaborate investigator at harvard medical school roswell park cancer institute and university of southern california .
 in a variety of disease entity such as breast colon and haematological cancer antibody therapy have be show to improve overall survival as well as time to disease progression particularly when combine with chemotherapy review in .
 the mechanism behind anti-tumour activity mediate by monoclonal antibody depend on target .
 some induce internalisation of growth receptor interfere with signal transduction such as antibody direct against her2 neu and the epidermal growth-factor receptor but may also induce antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity adcc 1 .
 other such as antibody direct against or the epithelial cellular adhesion molecule primarily act through adcc .
 muc1 also know in the clinic as ca15-3 antigen be a high-molecular-weight transmembrane glycoprotein that be express on the ductal cell surface of normal glandular epithelia and be over-expressed in a variety of epithelial cancer .
 in cancer cell muc1 be not only over-expressed but also deficiently glycosylated expose a variable number of immuno-dominant domain on the muc1 peptide core which make it a good target for immunotherapy .
 we and other have demonstrate antibody response to muc1 in breast ovarian colon lung and pancreatic cancer patient and in healthy woman .
 this natural humoral immune response be a favourable prognostic factor .
 naturally occur anti-muc1 antibody lead to a cap or cluster of muc1 on the cell surface unmask cell surface molecule involve in cell adhesion and limit tumour invasion .
 a redistribution of muc1 also be instrumental in expose cell surface receptor involve in immune recognition process .
 this would enable recognition and destruction of the tumour cell by antigen specific t-cell and or nk-cell .
 the humanised muc1 specific monoclonal antibody huhmfg-1 can mediate in vitro tumour cell kill and be currently evaluate in clinical trial as a potential immunotherapy for breast cancer .
 muc1 serum level correlate with tumour load and progression and affect huhmfg-1 mediate tumour cell kill .
 here we have analyse the effect of muc1 present in sera of cancer patient as well as pbmc characteristic on in vitro huhmfg-1- mediate adcc .
 approaches to increase the efficacy of huhmfg-1 treatment such as addition of cytokine and effect of antibody concentration be investigate and discuss .
 material and .
 patient serum sample and muc1 serum level .
 forty-six serial serum sample obtain from 28 ovarian and breast cancer patient be collect aliquoted and store at c until analyse for muc-1 level and capacity to inhibit huhmfg-1-mediated adcc .
 cancer antigen 15-3 muc1 serum level be determine use the advia centaur 15-3 assay bayer corporation tarrytown ny usa perform on the fully automate advia centaur system .
 the assay be based on the anti-muc1 mab df3 which be direct to the dominant repeat sequence dtrpap to capture antigen and anti-muc1 mab 115d8 which be direct to a carbohydrate epitope as tracer .
 the cut-off level recommend by the manufacturer exclude of a normal population be u ml .
 isolation of peripheral blood mononuclear cell pbmc and natural killer nk cell purification .
 peripheral blood mononuclear cell pbmc from 13 different healthy donor be isolate from buffycoats obtain from sanquin blood bank amsterdam the netherlands by density gradient centrifugation use lymphoprep nycomed oslo norway .
 the number of cell be determine and pbmc be cryopreserved in separate batch until use .
 nk cell enrichment be perform by negative depletion use the nk cell isolation kit ii miltenyi biotec bergisch gladbach germany accord to manufacture 's recommendation .
 adcc assay .
 huhmfg-1 a humanised igg1-type muc1 mab be provide by antisoma plc london uk .
 highly purify human igg pelicluster-sanquin amsterdam the netherlands be use as control antibody .
 the breast tumour cell line zr-75-1 that over-expresses muc1 be cultured in imdm plus fcs and be use as target cell line .
 donor pbmc be thaw and cultured overnight in iscove 's modify dulbecco 's medium imdm gibco paisley scotland supplement with foetal calf serum fcs gibco paisley scotland .
 in some experiment il-2 iu ml il-21 25 ng ml il-15 ng ml or ifn- iu ml be add to the culture .
 pbmc be re-suspended in medium at a concentration of cell ml .
 target cell zr-75-1 be label with ci mbq 51cr amersham buckinghamshire uk for 2 h at 37 cell be wash twice with ml medium and re-suspended in medium at a concentration of cell ml .
 fifty microlitres of the target cell be seed in u-bottom 96 well culture plate costar cambridge ma usa .
 cell be then incubate with muc1 mab or control antibody at a final concentration of 5 g ml unless otherwise specify .
 alternatively serum sample be add .
 after min incubation at 37 c l of the pbmc be seed into the culture plate at cell ratio and and the plate be incubate for another 18 h at 37 the release of 51cr in the supernatant be determine in an automatic gamma counter .
 each measurement be carry out in triplicate .
 spontaneous and maximal 51cr release be determine in sixfold .
 the percentage of 51-cr release and specific release be define as specific release with release without ab .
 flow cytometry .
 fitc- or pe- label mouse anti-human cd3 cd4 cd8 cd14 cd16 clone clb-fc-gran 1 cd19 cd56 and the corresponding murine igg control antibody pelicluster-sanquin amsterdam the netherlands as well as mouse anti-human cd16 clone 3g8 pharmingen becton dickinson san jose usa be use for the determination of pbmc surface marker expression by flow cytometry .
 expression of nkg2d be analyse on nk cell from healthy donor cultured for 18 h in complete medium with or without patient sera with purify anti-nkg2d mab139 rd system minneapolis mn usa follow by fitc-labelled rabbit anti-mouse immunoglobulin f ab 2 dako glostrup denmark .
 mica expression on zr-75-1 be analyse with anti-human mica clone amo1 rd system minneapolis mn usa follow by pe-labelled polyclonal goat anti-mouse immunoglobulin f ab 2 dako glostrup denmark .
 cell be incubate with the antibody for min at 4 c and analyse use a facscan datum analysis be perform use cellquest software bd bioscience san jose usa .
 fc receptor fcr and nkg2d block .
 effector cell be pre-treated overnight with monoclonal antibody against cd16 clone clb-fc-gran 1 and 3g8 cd32 clone cd64 clone or control mouse igg all from pharmingen becton dickinson san jose usa .
 for nkg2d block pbmc be incubate overnight with the antibody mab139 g ml and the adcc be perform in the presence of the antibody .
 statistic .
 normality of distribution of the datum be confirm with the kolmogorov smirnov test and q q plot .
 pearson correlation and 2 test be perform to analyse the relation between cell number and tumour cell kill and to analyse the influence of muc1 serum level on adcc .
 a signed-rank test be use to investigate the influence of different cytokine on ability to mediate adcc .
 a value of p be consider significant .
 all datum be analyse use the spss software .
 .
 nk cell number and cd16 polymorphism determine the level of adcc .
 based on the develop in vitro assay to study whether muc1 antibody can mediate adcc huhmfg-1-mediated adcc be perform use the human breast cancer cell line zr-75-1 as target cell and human peripheral blood mononuclear cell as effector cell .
 humanised hmfg-1 show a dose-dependent killing of zr-75-1 cell with maximal killing at concentration range between and 25 g ml not show .
 in the presence of 5 g ml of huhmfg-1 tumour cell kill vary widely from to between the 13 healthy donor test .
 tumour cell kill by low responder donor pbmc be not improve by increase the concentration of huhmfg-1 up to g ml datum not show .
 the percentage of nk cell within pbmc correlated with the ability to mediate huhmfg-1-mediated adcc p table 1 .
 there be also a positive correlation with fcriii cd16 positive cell p table 1 .
 no correlation be find between tumour cell kill and the percentage of t helper cell cytotoxic t lymphocyte b cell or monocyte not show .
 full-size image 24k differential huhmfg-1-dependent adcc mediate by pbmc from 13 healthy donor use 5 g ml of huhmfg-1 .
 view within article .
 table .
 huhmfg-1-mediated adcc correlation with pbmc characteristic .
 specific killing cell clb-fc-gran 1mfi 3g8mfi clb-fc-gran 1 pbmc pbmc pbmc pbmc pbmc pbmc pbmc pbmc pbmc pbmc pbmc pbmc pbmc .
 n13131312 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 adcc be mediate primarily through fcriii cd16 .
 have show that fcrriii be involve in huhmfg-1 adcc .
 blocking assay be carry out to confirm this mechanism in model .
 indeed adcc be block after pre-treatment of effector cell with two different monoclonal antibody against cd16 but not with antibody against cd32 fcrii or cd64 fcri .
 full-size image 15k huhmfg-1-mediated adcc depend on the fcriii .
 antibody against different fcr fcriii cd16 clone 3g8 and clone clb-fc-gran 1 fcrii cd32 and fcri cd64 be use to block huhmfg-1 mediate adcc .
 effector cell be incubate overnight with g ml of the mab against the fc receptor and adcc be perform use 5 g ml of huhmfg-1 .
 view within article .
 the proportion of nk cell be not the only component contribute to the observe difference in tumour cell kill by pbmc from different donor .
 pbmc from high and low responder be enrich to equal number of nk cell and analyse in an adcc assay .
 enriched nk cell from a high responder induce specific killing while enrich nk cell from a low responder induce specific killing .
 this result suggest that the observe difference between high and low responder may also be due to intrinsic characteristic of the nk cell rather than just the number of nk cell .
 to elucidate this expression level of the fcriii cd16 be investigate .
 two different antibody be use one of which clone 3g8 bind with a high affinity to cell from individual who be homozygous for the fcriiia 158-val polymorphism .
 while there be no difference in cd16 expression find with clone clb-fc-gran 1 p table 1 expression level determine with clone 3g8 correlated with the capacity to mediate adcc p table 1 suggest a role for the fcriiia 158-val polymorphism in huhmfg-1-mediated adcc .
 full-size image 35k the level of adcc depend partly on the proportion of nk cell in pbmc and cd16 expression .
 adcc be perform use 5 g ml of huhmfg-1 with donor pbmc from a high a pbmc 3 and a low b pbmc 5 responder and the corresponding enrich nk cell obtain by negative selection .
 one representative experiment of four perform be show .
 cd16 expression on pbmc 3 c and pbmc 5 d be analyse by flow cytometry with two mab clone 3g8 and cloneclb-fc-gran 1 .
 view within article .
 next it be investigate whether the addition of the nk cell activate cytokine enhance huhmfg-1 adcc mediate by low and also by high responder .
 previously we demonstrate an increase in adcc by the addition of il-2 and ifn- .
 to confirm and extend on this finding we study the effect of this cytokine as well as il-15 and il-21 on huhmfg-1-mediated adcc .
 a 2- to 5 fold enhancement of tumour cell kill be observe when pbmc be pre-treated with il-2 il-21 and il-15 while ifn- have differential effect .
 full-size image il-2 il-21 and il-15 but not ifn- can enhance huhmfg-1-mediated adcc .
 pbmc from four different donor 2 low responder and 2 high response be cultured for 5 day in the presence of ifn- il-2 il-21 or il-15 prior to perform adcc .
 the increase in cytotoxicity due to treatment cytotoxicity ratio treat untreated be calculate as follow tumour cell lysis by treat pbmc at tumour cell lysis by un-treated pbmc at .
 a ratio 1 indicate that tumour cell kill be high in cytokine-treated pbmc than in untreated pbmc .
 view within article .
 high muc1 antigen serum level inhibit huhmfg-1-adcc .
 muc1 purify from tumour cell can inhibit huhmfg-1-mediated adcc .
 muc1 be frequently elevate in serum of patient with breast and ovarian cancer .
 as huhmfg-1 be be test as a tumour immunotherapeutic agent we analyse the effect of serum muc1 antigen level on huhmfg-1-dependent adcc use high responder pbmc 1 see 1 .
 killing of the zr-75-1 cell line without antibody be always low and be not affect by addition of muc1 contain patient sera indicate that natural anti-muc1 antibody that may be present in serum be not sufficient to mediate in vitro adcc .
 huhmfg-1 mediate addc be however strongly inhibit in the presence of serum contain 1949 u ml muc1 from to specific lysis .
 however addition of serum contain low level of muc1 9 u ml have no effect on tumour cell kill versus specific lysis 5a .
 in 15 out of serum sample with muc1 level below the upper limit of normal u ml huhmfg-1-dependent adcc inhibition be little than .
 inhibition of cytotoxicity be high than in 22 out of 26 serum sample with muc1 level above u ml 2 two-tailed p 5b .
 inhibition of tumour cell kill by high level of serum muc1 be overcome with increase serum dilution and thus decrease muc1 concentration .
 however other possible inhibit factor would also be dilute .
 therefore it be investigate whether the inhibit effect of serum contain high level of muc1 also be resolve by add increase level of huhmfg-1 .
 muc1 antigen completely block tumour cell kill mediate by low concentration of huhmfg-1 1 and g ml kill v kill in the presence of muc1 .
 however in the presence of increase huhmfg-1 concentration inhibition of target cell kill by muc1 antigen decrease 25 g ml or be completely abrogate g ml .
 full-size image 53k high muc1 serum level inhibit huhmfg-1-mediated adcc which can be overcome by add increase concentration of the a example of adcc of zr-75-1 by pbmc 1 in the presence of serum with low 9 u ml or high 1949 u ml level of b correlation between muc1 level and percentage of inhibition of huhmfg-1 mediate tumour cell kill p .
 the graph be divide in four quadrant low leave normal muc1 level u ml and little than inhibition n 15 upper leave normal muc1 level and much than inhibition n 5 low right muc1 above normal level u ml and little than inhibition n 4 upper right muc1 above normal level and much than inhibition n 22 .
 closed symbol correspond to serum sample with various muc1 level take at different time point from four patient with breast cancer and one patient with ovarian cancer .
 open circle correspond to single sample from individual patient with breast or ovarian cancer .
 all adcc assay be perform use 5 g ml of huhmfg-1 and high responder pbmc 1 as effector c a high muc1 serum sample u ml obtain from a patient with breast cancer be serially dilute to a muc1 level of 1 u ml .
 each dilution be test in an adcc assay perform use 5 g ml of huhmfg-1 .
 one representative experiment of three perform be d muc1 adcc inhibition can be overcome with increase concentration of huhmfg-1 .
 white bar depict huhmfg-1 mediate tumour cell kill in the absence of serum .
 huhmfg-1-mediated killing be optimal with mab concentration of 1 or 25 g ml .
 black bar depict tumour cell kill in the presence of a serum sample with high muc1 level u ml obtain from a patient with breast cancer .
 one representative experiment of three perform be show .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 clinical success of monoclonal antibody specifically targeting tumour cell have create great interest in antibody-based immunotherapy .
 trastuzumab be a monoclonal antibody targeting the extracellular domain of the her2 neu protein .
 result of trial that compare adjuvant chemotherapy alone or in combination with trastuzumab in woman with surgically remove her2-positive breast cancer show a benefit in disease free survival and overall survival in trastuzumab treat patient .
 contrary to her2 neu which be express only in of breast cancer muc1 be over-expressed in virtually all breast adenocarcinoma .
 due to tandemly repeat extracellular sequence muc1 present multiple antigenic region per molecule ensure antibody binding even in low express tumour .
 the muc1 specific antibody huhmfg-1 therefore be a much widely applicable therapeutic agent .
 huhmfg-1 lead to a cap or cluster of muc1 on the surface of the tumour cell expose cell surface receptor involve in immune recognition process .
 this would enable recognition and destruction of the tumour cell by antigen specific t-cell and or nk-cell .
 indeed we have previously show that huhmfg-1 mediate adcc of muc1 positive cell line .
 nk cell and the fcriii play an important role in mediate huhmfg-1-dependent tumour cell kill .
 two different allotypes of the fcriiia have be describe fcriiia-158v and fcriiia-158f and this polymorphism have be report to affect igg1 binding .
 donor positive for the fcriiia-158v polymorphism have a well clinical response to treatment with rituximab .
 this increase clinical response be explain by the high affinity of the fcriiia-158v for rituximab which result in an increase nk cell mediate lysis of positive cell .
 the fcriiia specific clone 3g8 display a strong binding to pbmc from individual homozygous for the fcriiia 158-val polymorphism .
 here we show a correlation between high fcriiia expression use the 3g8 antibody and huhmfg-1 mediate adcc .
 this correlation be not observe with the clb-fcgran 1 antibody which bind equally strong to both fcriiia allotypes .
 this datum strongly suggest that the fcriiia polymorphism may also influence huhmfg-1-mediated adcc .
 dna type analysis should be carry out to confirm this observation .
 there be currently numerous effort ongoing to improve the efficacy of therapeutic igg1 antibody .
 in vitro molecular engineering of the fc region be one possibility to improve the affinity of mab for the fcriiia and thereby to enhance adcc .
 furthermore combination therapy with nk cell activate cytokine may increase adcc .
 it have previously be show that il-2 il-15 and il-21 can augment adcc .
 indeed in system stimulation of pbmc with il-2 il-21 and il-15 but not with ifn increase huhmfg-1-mediated adcc .
 moreover it have be demonstrate that patient treat with antibody in combination with il-2 exhibit an increase in vitro adcc .
 gluck et show that the addition of il-2 to rituximab therapy for the treatment of b-cell non-hodgkin 's lymphoma result in nk cell expansion that correlate with clinical response .
 they also observe that adcc activity be increase or maintain in respond and stable disease patient .
 however the in vivo relevance of in vitro result need far confirmation .
 use different serum sample with vary muc1 level we demonstrate that muc1 can inhibit huhmfg-1-mediated adcc .
 muc1 serum level above the upper limit of normal u ml inhibit huhmfg-1-mediated adcc 22 26 serum sample and as this level differ among cancer patient they have to be consider to define the therapeutic dose of huhmfg-1 .
 one way to confirm the inhibit effect of muc1 would be to perform adcc after remove muc1 from the sera .
 unfortunately it be not possible to remove muc1 from patient sera without dilute the sera .
 however tumour cell kill be restore with high huhmfg-1 concentration .
 antibody concentration between 25 and g ml overcome in vitro inhibition of tumour cell kill by extremely high muc1 level u ml strongly suggest that muc1 be indeed inhibit huhmfg-1-mediated adcc .
 this concentration be achieve in serum with administration of huhmfg-1 dose level 3 mg kg in vivo .
 this concentration lie well within the tolerable dose consider that the mtd exceed 16 mg kg .
 nevertheless care be need in extrapolate finding from the in vitro set to the in vivo situation where dynamic force in circulate blood may influence antigen antibody interaction .
 some serum sample 5 inhibit adcc even though the level of muc1 be below the normal limit .
 another possible inhibitory factor be the soluble form of the stress-inducible mhc class i-related chain a mica which be a ligand of the nk cell receptor nkg2d .
 soluble mica be release from tumour cell and inhibit cell-surface nkg2d expression and nkg2d-mediated effector function of immune cell in patient with progressive malignant tumour .
 mica be express on the target cell we use in the adcc assay and block of nkg2d inhibit kill suggest that nkg2d co-stimulation play a role in huhmfg-1-mediated adcc .
 however we not demonstrate impairment of nkg2d expression on nk cell after incubation with serum sample with low muc1 that inhibit adcc suggest that in this case soluble nkg2d ligand do not play a role in adcc inhibition datum not show .
 in conclusion in vitro result indicate that the number of nk cell nk cell activate cytokine the fcriiia-158 polymorphism and high muc1 serum level influence huhmfg-1-mediated adcc .
 the use of high concentration of huhmfg-1 which lie within the well-tolerated dose recently test in a phase i clinical trial can compensate for the elevate muc1 serum level .
 optimal effect of huhmfg-1 treatment might be see when the serum muc1 level be low such as in early stage patient in contrast to the advance disease patient .
 screening for patient with high level of nk cell bear the fcriiia-158v polymorphism adjust the dosage to circulate level of muc1 and co-administration of nk cell activate cytokine may increase the efficacy of huhmfg-1 treatment .
 the conventional radiotherapeutic approach after lumpectomy generally consist of deliver 45 to gy to the entire breast employ wedge tangential field optimized use a single central-axis isodose distribution with or without inhomogeneity correction .
 the efficacy of this empirically derived treatment approach have be establish in multiple clinical trial with local control rate range from to and complication rate little than to despite the apparent success of this conventional treatment strategy far reduction in acute and chronic toxicity be possible both within the breast and in adjacent normal tissue .
 several study have demonstrate significant dose inhomogeneity as large as to in the superior and inferior region of the breast when employ wedge tangential this region of increase dose have be show to contribute to an inferior cosmetic result particularly in large-breasted woman .
 several different technique have be develop to optimize dose delivery for whole-breast radiation therapy rt .
 physical compensator design from computerized tomography ct can improve the 3 dimensional 3d dose distribution in the unfortunately widespread implementation remain impractical at much institution .
 in addition customized compensator may increase scatter dose to the contralateral breast .
 a second technique much frequently utilize be the application of wedge to correct for some of the vary tissue thickness throughout the breast .
 while this eliminate the need for construct customized compensator for each patient the 2 dimensional 2d dosimetric profile of the wedge provide equivalent tissue compensation to that of customized filter .
 intensity modulate radiation therapy imrt deliver with multileaf collimator mlc be one way to provide an optimized dose distribution to the whole breast in a rapid and efficient the use of imrt in breast irradiation treatment offer the potential advantage of improve dose homogeneity reduce dose to lung and heart and reduce scatter dose to contralateral breast .
 this dosimetric improvement may lead to well cosmetic result lower cardiac and pulmonary complication and reduce risk of contralateral breast cancer .
 we herein report the technique and clinical implementation of imrt with tangential beam use slide window technique for adjuvant treatment of breast cancer .
 as of december much than patient have be treat with this technique in university of pittsburgh medical center upmc cancer network .
 we also report the comparison of imrt plan with 3d plan in randomly select patient .
 method and material ct simulation .
 the patient be place supine in a wing board on the scanner the patient be then position with both arm up and hold the handle above head and the scanner couch be drive through the aperture to make sure that the patient would clear the scanner .
 if the patient do not clear then the arm position be adjust .
 the radiation oncologist palpate the breast tissue and place radiopaque wire around the patient 's breast and mark superior-inferior border 2 cm above and below the breast tissue and midline-lateral border with bbs .
 the ct be perform without intravenous contrast .
 axial ct image of the thorax be acquire every 5 mm to include breast complete leave and right lung and the heart on a ge hispeed ct scanner ge medical system milwaukee wi .
 the isocenter be locate on the axial image contain midline and lateral marker by measure one third of the vertical distance from the midline of the medial field border to the apex of the breast .
 the ct datum be then transfer to the treatment planning system eclipse planning system version varian medical system palo alto via dicom network connection .
 contouring .
 use axial sagittal and coronal view on the planning system the tangential field be align with medial and lateral border design to cover the entire breast .
 collimator angle beam depth or gantry angle be adjust to minimize normal tissue dose while ensure full coverage of the breast include the tumor bed .
 auto-contouring of the skin and both lung be do use tool in the planning system .
 the radiation oncologist contour the heart for the leave breast cancer patient .
 the primary breast target volume tv be define by draw a straight line from the midline marker to the lateral marker and 5 mm inside the breast skin exclude lung and heart .
 this target volume be define to generate a uniform dose across the breast use the inverse planning program in the planning system .
 all contour be perform on the axial ct slice .
 figure 1 show the marker and contour on the representative axial ct slice for breast imrt .
 full-size image 76k markers and contour on the representative axial ct slice for breast imrt .
 view within article .
 inverse treatment planning .
 based on this volume and specify dose constraint inverse treatment planning be perform use the slide window technique employ the helios module of the eclipse planning system .
 in the planning process 2 tangential field be utilize .
 the dose constraint be as follow the planning target volume be to receive gy no much than of the ipsilateral lung be to receive much than gy .
 for leave breast cancer the dose-volume constraint be such that no much than of the heart be to receive much than gy .
 the final dose calculation for the imrt plan be perform with inhomogeneity correction .
 the fluence map be extend 2 cm outside the breast skin to accommodate the respiratory motion of the chest and then the imrt plan be recalculated with the new fluence map .
 plan verification and validation .
 once the radiation oncologist prior to treatment delivery approve the plan the imrt plan for each patient be validate on the varian linear accelerator use a phantom to confirm the dose delivery and intensity map .
 the isodose on the coronal image of a phantom plan be compare with the film dosimetry .
 aapm tg-53 criterion be adopt to evaluate isodose line for high-dose gradient isodose line 2 mm and low-dose gradient and isodose line 5 for 148 different patient plan average dose deviation from measure to expected dose be by ion chamber and for 133 different patient plan average dose deviation from measure to expected be by film .
 patient setup verification and treatment .
 the patient be set up on the treatment table on the linear accelerator as per plan .
 electronic portal imaging be perform at the start of treatment for confirmation of setup reproducibility and thereafter it be do every week .
 the port film image be compare with the digitally reconstructed radiograph drr prior to the treatment .
 the entire treatment include patient setup and beam delivery be complete in a 15 minute slot for imrt .
 the treatment take approximately the same amount of time as treatment with wedge field due to the small number of field the relatively low modulation of the fluence and the fact that it be not necessary for the therapist to place wedge for each field .
 dosimetric comparison of imrt with 3dcrt .
 dosimetric parameter be calculate to compare the imrt plan to 3dcrt in term of dose uniformity and reduction in dose to critical organ .
 the ct datum of randomly select left-sided breast cancer and right-sided breast cancer be use for this retrospective treatment planning study .
 all of this patient be treat with imrt .
 the same beam arrangement and contour be keep for 3dcrt .
 optimized distribution be obtain use wedge and different beam weight on eclipse planning system .
 inhomogeneity correction be use in the creation of plan use 6- or mix 6- photon .
 the dose to tv and critical organ be record from the dvh for all patient .
 the dosimetric parameter compare be v95 percent of volume of target volume tv receive of prescription dose pd homogeneity index dhi v 95 the part of the tv that receive a dose high than and little than of pd percent of volume of tv receive of pd and percent of volume of tv receive of pd .
 the other parameter be heart percent of volume of heart receive gy mean dose to ipsilateral lung in gy lung percent of volume of ipsilateral lung receive gy percent of volume of contralateral lung receive of pd and total monitor unit mu .
 statistical analysis .
 use spss statistical package spss chicago il a 2 tail t-test be perform to compare mean between the 2 group .
 result .
 the mean v95 homogeneity index v 95 and for tv of imrt be sd sd sd and sd respectively and for 3dcrt sd sd sd and sd respectively .
 the dose comparison show that v95 for the tv of imrt be about the same as those of 3dcrt .
 the homogeneity index v 95 be increase by with imrt compare to 3dcrt .
 the improvement in dose homogeneity be statistically significant p .
 the reduction of and for the imrt compare to 3dcrt be and respectively .
 the reduction be statistically significant p .
 the mean dose and for heart with imrt be sd and sd respectively .
 the percent reduction in dose with imrt compare to 3dcrt be and respectively .
 the mean dose and for the ipsilateral lung with imrt be sd and sd respectively .
 the percent reduction in dose with imrt compare to 3dcrt be and respectively .
 the percent of volume of contralateral volume lung receive of pd be reduce by about with imrt compare to 3dcrt .
 the reduction be statistically significant p .
 the mean of total mu use for the imrt and 3dcrt be about the same 397 387 .
 isodose distribution be examine on the transverse coronal and sagittal slice for all patient .
 an example of isodose distribution on all 3 plane be show for imrt 3dcrt in 2 for one of the patient .
 the time for treatment include patient setup and beam delivery be complete for imrt in the same timeframe as 3dcrt .
 table .
 mean tv coverage for imrt and 3dcrt technique .
 parameterimrt sd 3dcrt sd difference imrt 3dcrt value dhi v 95 .
 full-size table .
 sd standard deviation .
 view within article .
 table .
 percent volume of organ irradiate technique use .
 volume of interestparameterimrt sd 3dcrt sd difference imrt 3dcrt value ipsilateral total mu397 91 387 55 .
 full-size table .
 sd standard deviation .
 view within article .
 full-size image 138k an example of isodose distribution on all 3 plane for imrt 3dcrt for one of the patient .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 breast radiotherapy be challenge as the anatomy and surround structure make this an inherently difficult site to achieve a homogeneous dose distribution .
 this site have a complex 3d shape which may have be modify far by surgery and be locate at the body-air interface .
 there be also important organ at risk in close proximity such as the lung and heart in the case of left-sided tumor .
 single plane 2d radiotherapy breast plan can lead to substantial dose inhomogeneity particularly in woman with large breast .
 an inhomogenous dose may lead to increased normal tissue side effect and poor cosmetic result which can cause significant psychological morbidity for patient .
 imrt deliver with mlc be one way to provide an optimized dose distribution to the whole breast in a rapid and efficient manner .
 the result of study suggest well dose homogeneity and reduce volume of hot spot with imrt in comparison to 3dcrt .
 other have also report similar this well dose homogeneity may translate into reduce skin toxicity and well cosmetic outcome in comparison with the conventional the use of leave instead of wedge as compensator also reduce scatter dose to the contralateral breast and to the other part of the body .
 we have report in previous study that dose to the contralateral breast be reduce significantly with imrt in comparison to conventional in present study the dose to contralateral lung be significantly reduce reflect reduction in scatter dose to other part of the body .
 similarly in a study by woo et the use of physical wedge as a compensation technique be the much significant factor associate with increase scatter dose p result in approximately 3 time much exposure compare with breast this decrease in scatter dose have the potential to reduce second malignancy specifically in young woman with breast cancer treat with radiation .
 the reduction in dose to critical organ include heart and lung with this technique be very modest because with the tangential breast imrt technique the beam go through the similar volume of critical organ as 3dcrt as the beam size and angle be same .
 this reduce the ability of inverse planning to optimize and far reduce the dose to critical organ .
 the multiple-beam technique can achieve this goal well but with the disadvantage of increase scatter dose and expose large volume to low dose .
 one way to further reduce heart dose if critical would be to remove the region of breast overlap the heart from the target volume thus allow the optimizer to reduce the heart dose .
 this would result in inferior coverage of breast volume thus this decision have to be make by the treat physician based on clinical information .
 one of the other concern with imrt be the geographical miss of the target volume with intrafraction motion induce by breathing .
 study have show that the difference between the plan and expect dose cause by the interplay between respiratory motion of normal breathing and mlc motion during imrt delivery be similar to that of the conventional tangential breast the reason for the insignificant respiratory motion effect be the large margin use clinically by extend the fluence map 2 cm beyond the breast volume and the gradual change of beam intensity along the motion direction .
 thus intensity-modulated tangential photon beam be safe for breast treatment when use the same patient and beam setup as conventional treatment without need to re-evaluate the effect of respiratory motion on dose coverage .
 conclusion .
 tangential-field imrt for intact breast cancer use the slide window technique be successfully implement in clinic .
 we have now successfully treat much than patient with this technique in cancer center network .
 it take about 2 to 3 hour to complete the 3dcrt planning whereas imrt take about 3 to 4 hour .
 however the treatment delivery time for imrt be about the same compare to conventional 3dcrt .
 the dosimetric datum suggest improve dose homogeneity in the breast and reduction in the dose to lung and heart for imrt treatment which may be of clinical value in potentially contribute to improve cosmetic result and reduce late toxicity .
 this anomaly disturb the expression of gene control critical cell process cause the initiation of tumourogenesis and genetic instability and lead to an increasingly invasive and resistant phenotype .
 that complex genetic basis and the combine heterogeneity of tumour and host cell create the potential for each tumour to be molecularly distinct from all other and consequently to display a unique clinical behaviour .
 better characterisation of tumour and understanding of oncogenesis be major requirement to improve patients' survival .
 molecular study of bc sample have so far successfully elucidate some mechanism of mammary oncogenesis and identify bc susceptibility gene brca1 and brca2 and other alter key gene such as cdh1 myc or erbb2 .
 yet the clinical application remain very limited for patient .
 the main reason be that conventional low-throughput analysis use a gene-by-gene approach often based upon specific and limited biological insight comprehend the molecular complexity of tumour and clinical diversity .
 the genome project and various technological development now make possible the simultaneous analysis of the activity of many gene in biological sample .
 the much advance level of profile be based on the large-scale measurement of mrna expression .
 among the rapidly emerge technology dna array have become the method of choice .
 there be multiple potential application in biomedical research particularly in the cancer field .
 four year ago we launch a project of molecular typing of bc with nylon dna array combine with radioactive detection .
 here we briefly present the technology and application in bc research include result .
 dna array technology dna array provide quantitative and simultaneous measurement of the mrna expression level of thousand of gene in a biological sample for a review see 1 and 2 .
 this technology rely on the hybridisation of a label target derived from sample rna to large set of dna fragment the probe represent gene array on a solid support .
 the target be produce by reverse transcription of rna and simultaneous labelling it contain many different fragment of complementary dna cdna in various amount in solution corresponding to the number of copy of the original messenger rna mrna species .
 during the hybridisation the amount of label cdna that hybridises with probe be proportional to abundance in the original rna sample .
 after wash and image acquisition the signal present on each probe be automatically detect and quantify it be proportional to the expression level of the concern gene .
 intensity be normalised and convert into expression level that then be analyse .
 since hybridisation analysis produce an inordinate amount of datum represent thousand of expression measurement the validation analysis interpretation display and storage of this raw information be not trivial step .
 the quality of the datum depend on well-controlled hybridisation condition such as a good quality rna the use of negative and positive control an adequate signal-to-noise ratio and the wide possible dynamic range .
 the analysis and interpretation of all of the validate datum require the use of sophisticated analysis program to extract the maximum meaningful information .
 in the past year method supervise such as neural network and unsupervised such as the various clustering technique have be apply .
 two different sort of dna array have be develop .
 the first type use array of cdna clone robotically spot on a support in the form of bacterial colony or pcr product .
 the old version be know as macroarrays' high-density filter that be make on large nylon membrane typically cm2 with the target generally label radioactively .
 macroarrays be flexible and compatible with the equipment present in much academic laboratory and can effectively assay set of hundred or a few thousand gene .
 we develop this approach in laboratory few year ago 2 4 and 5 .
 microarrays' be the miniaturised version they can contain ten of thousand of pcr product on surface of a few square centimetre .
 the solid support be generally glass and target be label with fluorescence allow simultaneous dual hybridisation of the test sample and of a reference rna sample .
 microarray can also be make on nylon membrane in this case target be label with radioactivity or colorimetry .
 hybridisation image of microarray be obtain use high-resolution scanner or a sophisticated flat bed scanner .
 the second type of dna array be initially develop by affymetrix santa clara usa and be know as an oligonucleotide chip' .
 hundreds of thousand of oligonucleotide be directly synthesised in_situ on glass slide a few square centimetre .
 for mrna expression measurement each gene be represent by a set of oligonucleotide 25 bp-long complement by a series of mismatch control oligonucleotide use to evaluate background .
 much recent implementation use long and much specific oligonucleotide bp-long allow each gene to be represent by a single sequence .
 the target be label with fluorescence and the detection scanner be similar to that use for glass 1 show hybridisation image provide by this platform .
 full-size image 62k gene expression measurement with dna array different approach .
 hybridisation image be show with an enlargement at the centre of each array .
 dna array contain robotically spot cdna clone a b c or oligonucleotide directly synthesised in_situ d .
 a nylon macroarray hundred of probe per square centimetre hybridised with a radioactivity-labelled target and image acquisition with a phosphor screen b nylon microarray thousand of probe per square centimetre simultaneously hybridised with two colorimetry-labelled target and image acquisition with a flat-bed' scanner .
 the dual hybridisation allow the direct visualisation of differential gene expression between the two sample the cdna spot appear red when overexpressed in the target label in red blue when overexpressed in the target label in blue and purple when similarly express in the two target adapt from .
 c glas microarray thousand of probe per square centimetre hybridised with two target label with different fluorescent dye and image acquisition with confocal laser scanner .
 the gene differentially express between the two sample can be directly visualised on this pseudo-colour image due to dual labelling the cdna spot appear red when overexpressed in the target label with red dye green when overexpressed in the target label with green dye and yellow when similarly express in the two d oligonucleotide chip on glass slide thousand of probe per square centimetre hybridised with a target label with fluorescent dye and image acquisition with confocal laser scanner .
 each gene be represent by a set of oligonucleotide 25 bp-long complement by a series of control-mismatched sequence adapt from .
 view within article application in breast cancer researchby provide a global view of mrna expression dna array provide a molecular biology tool capable of take on the complexity and combinatorial nature of bc genetic .
 use be direct towards two major objective .
 the first fundamental objective be to well understand mammary oncogenesis the identification of gene that drive disease progression will allow the development of new much specific therapeutic .
 the second clinical objective be to try to define a much accurate bc classification system .
 the clinical heterogeneity of disease be partially address by the current histoclinical parameter in a number of case the treatment response and the clinical outcome vary widely between apparently similar tumour .
 the use of the comprehensive gene expression profile of tumour may identify based on the similarity in expression profile new distinct molecular subgroup of tumour within histoclinically similar group .
 some recent publication suggest that this objective may be reach within a few year .
 dna array and mammary oncogenesis dna array be useful to well characterise gene involve in oncogenesis .
 for the majority of them the precise function upstream regulation and downstream effect and influence on the malignant phenotype remain unknown or unclear .
 technology allow the analysis of the transcriptional consequence of activation or inactivation of gene .
 example include those report follow the activation of the myc oncogene and the inactivation of the p53 tumour suppressor gene .
 this type of experiment may allow the identification of gene network involve in cancer .
 the identification of cluster of co-expressed gene allow the association of this gene with potential new function and the discovery of common dna regulatory motif in sequence .
 key gene implicate in bc can be reveal by dna array experiment compare the molecular profile of different stage of the diseases' development .
 use nylon array represent candidate gene we identify several gene differentially express between normal breast tissue and 34 primary breast tumour .
 the gene erbb2 and muc1 be know to be involve in disease whereas other such as gata3 have not yet be insinuate .
 we compare the expression profile of node-negative tumour to tumour with massive axillary extension or much positive node and find a positive correlation between the expression level of erbb2 and the number of tumour-involved node .
 similar study compare primary tumour and metastases have be report .
 full-size image 98k large-scale gene expression measurement use dna array in breast cancer .
 nylon macroarray contain pcr product of gene spot in duplicate be hybridised with complex target make from 5 g of total rna 1 normal breast nb tissue and 34 breast cancer bc sample and 33p-labelled .
 data be analyse with hierarchical clustering software .
 a hybridisation image .
 the leave image correspond to the whole membrane hybridised with nb target and the right image represent the right part of the membrane hybridised with two bc target .
 some gene be number 1 gapdh 2 and 3 stmy3 and erbb2 overexpressed in nb 4 and 5 fos and desmin underexpressed in bc and 6 gata3 overexpressed in a er-positive b coloured representation of expression level of gene in 35 breast sample .
 each row represent a gene and each column represent a sample .
 expression level relative to the median across all sample be display use a colour scale range from green for underexpressed gene to red for overexpressed gene .
 hierarchical clustering apply to gene and to sample order them accord to the similarity of expression pattern .
 the respective gene and sample dendrogram represent the relatedness between gene and between sample .
 two group of tumour a in blue and b in orange be separate .
 group a be far subdivide in two subgroup a1 and a2 with different outcome after c sub-classification of group a with gene expression profile .
 display of result of hierarchical clustering apply to 12 sample of group a and the top 23 differentially express gene between a1 dark blue cluster and a2 light blue cluster subgroup .
 patient of this two subgroup have different metastasis-free and overall survival dot branch patient who relapse and die .
 adapted from .
 view within article another application be in the development of new anticancer treatment .
 in addition to the identification of new therapeutic target dna array may also be use to investigate the resistance of tumour to treatment .
 knowledge of the relationship between the hormone sensitivity of bc and the presence of oestrogen receptor er be not sufficient to understand the variable response of tumour to hormonal treatment .
 it be probable that other gene relate to er status be much useful in predict treatment responsiveness .
 identification might influence therapeutic decision and stimulate the development of new anticancer drug .
 to search for gene expression be affiliate with the er status expression profile of bc cell line be first compare 5 and 18 .
 a strong correlation between the expression of er and gata3 transcription factor be evidence and be far confirm with tissue sample 16 19 and 21 .
 by compare the expression profile of candidate gene in er-positive versus er-negative tumour we identify several gene which mrna level be associate with er status include gata3 xbp1 myb .
 several molecular mechanism of chemoresistance have be identify include increase drug efflux outside the cell but many much mechanism probably operate to determine responsiveness to chemotherapy .
 dna array by monitor large-scale change in gene expression relate to the acquisition of the chemoresistant phenotype in cancer cell line can help to identify new predictive factor .
 dna array and prognostic classification of breast cancer because of the great heterogeneity of disease treatment need to be tailor to each tumour phenotype .
 this major challenge depend on the improvement of tumour classification .
 the first demonstration of the utility of dna array for cancer classification come from the profile of cell line show that line derived from the same organ cluster together accord to gene expression pattern .
 this be far confirm by golub et who use expression profile of bone marrow collection to distinguish acute myeloid leukaemia from acute lymphoid leukaemia .
 then show the prognostic value of such molecular classification .
 the author identify two new sub-types of large b-cell diffuse lymphoma with biological and clinical relevance the tumour with a pattern close to that of germinal centre b cell have a significantly well prognosis than the tumour with expression pattern corresponding to activate b cell .
 analyses of bc sample have reveal extensive heterogeneity of tumour at the transcriptional level and the ability of separate them use cluster technique on the basis of differ er status 16 19 26 27 28 and 29 .
 we also identify difference in survival between new molecularly distinct tumour subgroup 16 and 27 .
 profiling of 34 localised breast tumour with nylon macroarray contain candidate gene and hierarchical clustering analysis allow to distinguish among tumour with poor prognosis accord to classical criterion two subgroup with different survival after adjuvant chemotherapy .
 this separation which result from expression profile of 23 discriminator gene be not possible use the conventional prognostic feature .
 among this gene some be already associate with the prognosis of disease erbb2 egfr myc as well as other gene not yet recognised as important gata3 crabp2 and efna1 .
 we validate and extend this result by measure the mrna expression of a thousand candidate gene include the previous gene in a large and independent series of 55 poor prognosis primary bc treat with adjuvant chemotherapy .
 use a refined set derived from the previous one we distinguish among the 55 tumour three class with significantly different 5-year survival .
 discussion and perspective such prognostic classification be recently report in localised bc and 29 in locally advance bc and in multiple form of disease .
 in all this study include ours no prognostic classification as accurate as expression profiles-based classification be obtain use classical prognostic factor .
 in every case the classification require expression measurement of some ten of gene that probably include potential molecular target for new and much specific therapy .
 to further explore the validity of result we compare the list of discriminator gene identify .
 despite several different methodological aspect 26 gene be find in at least two list .
 reassuringly some have a know prognostic value esr1 erbb2 but much be not yet associate with prognosis but have function that make them prime candidate for novel therapeutic target .
 all this study thus reveal the great and promising potential of dna array for capture the true diversity of bc and refine the prognostic classification .
 but a number of issue need to be address before dna array translate into clinical benefit .
 we discuss here only the issue concern the amount of start rna require that depend on the sensitivity of the choose technique .
 for little sensitive technique a great quantity of start material be require .
 one way to obtain a usable amount be to amplify the mrna before label use linear amplification method but that remain couple with a risk of modify the relative abundance of individual sequence species in the target .
 however technique be be improve even though there be some bias in the amplification .
 another solution be to improve the intrinsic performance of current dna array .
 glas microarray and oligonucleotide chip require a few micrograms of mrna while nylon macroarray use some micrograms of total rna 5 g in study .
 we compare the sensitivity of this three implementation without take into account mrna amplification method .
 relating the minimal relative abundance generally report by author as a sensitivity limit to the target concentration and ultimately to the size of the start material we show that the sensitivity for nylon macroarray be in fact similar to other approach to million mrna molecule be necessary in the sample to be detectable .
 we suggest that this sensitivity be mostly due to the high capacity of nylon membrane allow large amount of probe and correspondingly large signal add to the excellent intrinsic sensitivity of radioactive detection .
 we then show that nylon microarray combine with radioactive labelling provide sensitive expression measurement use submicrogram amount of total rna time little than the other 3 show image of nylon microarray with cdna clone hybridised with radioactive 33p-labelled target .
 it be first hybridised with a vector target corresponding to a sequence common to all spot pcr product this allow the estimation of the amount of target dna accessible to hybridisation .
 it be then strip and hybridised with a complex target make from only g of total rna extract from a cancer cell line 3b .
 this development be important for the application of dna array in clinical oncology because they will allow profile of small tumour sample include biopsy minimal residual disease or homogeneous material provide by microdissection .
 full-size image 44k nylon microarray with radioactive detection .
 nylon microarray cm2 contain cdna clone hybridised with radioactive 33p-labelled target .
 hybridisation with a vector oligonucleotide a and with a label target make from g of total rna b .
 enlargements of a part be show under microarray .
 view within article conclusiondna array provide a revolutionary tool to discover and analyse the complex molecular basis of cancer .
 since first appearance in the mid many development have allow them to be accessed by much and much researcher .
 many study have confirm great potential interest in the scientific biomedical and pharmaceutical field of oncology .
 the clinical benefit for patient remain to be demonstrate .
 combined with other emerge large-scale molecular analysis method they will provide great insight into understanding of cancer .
 this would boost the development of new specific anticancer therapeutic and improve the current tumour taxonomy allow the prediction with accuracy of the outcome of the disease sensitivity to a give treatment and the delivery of treatment targeted to each individual tumour .
 numerous study have show that overall breast cancer incidence be high for white woman than for african american or hispanic woman but that the two latter group be disadvantaged with respect to stage at diagnosis and survival 2 and 3 .
 recent study have link neighborhood indicator of poverty and disadvantage to difference in stage at diagnosis with individual live in low socioeconomic status ses area have an increase probability of late-stage diagnosis 2 4 and 5 .
 individual level datum on characteristic such as income or education be often not available for population-based sample such as cancer registry datum .
 thus area level indicator of ses be often use in predictive model examine the relationship between ses and stage of cancer diagnosis .
 much study examine link between neighborhood ses and health be cross-sectional .
 however recent change in the makeup of urban neighborhood have raise question about the assumption that area of concentrate poverty be stable 6 .
 between and the total number of people live in neighborhood where the poverty rate be or high a common definition of high-poverty neighborhood decrease by 7 .
 two major factor contribute to this trend .
 first income rise in many of the nation 's poor urban area especially in the midwest and the south 7 .
 second during the last two decade young professional and some empty-nesters from the suburb in many metropolitan area include chicago increasingly choose to live in the city center a process loosely referred to as gentrification 8 .
 in addition change in public housing policy include the destruction of many large apartment building and increase economic power among recent immigrant lead to increased ethnic diversity in this and surround neighborhood 9 and .
 despite the interest in neighborhood effect on health virtually no study have examine the impact of rapid neighborhood level social change on health outcome .
 change have positive or negative effect 11 .
 for example increase in neighborhood property value lead to increased perception of safety and increase private and public investment 12 and 13 .
 this decrease barrier to receive health care safety and transportation and increase the quality of life of those resident who can afford to take advantage of the change .
 on the other hand rapid social change may also be a source of stress for those individual who be financially squeeze by increase rent and property tax and who become socially isolate as friend and family member leave the change neighborhood 14 and 15 .
 neighborhood social change also disrupt access to healthcare service if alteration in designation as a medically underserved area mua impact the availability of clinic service .
 use the illinois state cancer registry iscr datum in conjunction with census tract level datum we examine the association between rapid residential area economic change and the likelihood of distant metastasis at diagnosis of breast cancer among woman in the chicago area .
 method study population .
 the analysis employ breast cancer stage at diagnosis datum from the iscr 16 .
 analysis be based on breast cancer case diagnose between 1994 and among woman reside in cook county il .
 iscr datum be estimate to be to complete for the year 1994 based on the north american association of central cancer registry method 17 .
 cancer registry record provide standardized information on age race hispanic ethnicity and surveillance epidemiology and end result seer general summary stage at diagnosis 18 .
 we exclude a small number of patient n 287 not identify as non-hispanic white black or hispanic .
 in-situ case or case with unknown diagnostic stage and of all the report case respectively be also exclude from the analysis .
 demographic characteristic of the include case be show in table as an outcome variable distant metastasis at diagnosis be code 1 and local and regional stage at diagnosis be code cancer case be geocoded by the cancer registry to the census block level use residential address at the time of diagnosis .
 complete and valid address information be available for much than of the cook county breast cancer case .
 use this information we code each case to a cook county census tract .
 table .
 frequency distribution of variables included in the analysis .
 or mean sd individual level n seer stage at diagnosis mean age yr race ethnicity african neighborhood tract level n mean concentrate mean concentrate mean concentrate mean upward full-size table .
 sd standard deviation .
 view within article .
 measurement .
 neighborhood characteristic be measure use indicator from the and us census bureau summary tape file stf3 and sf3 respectively 19 for cook county il .
 we develop 3 scale to measure neighborhood characteristic use census datum concentrate disadvantage concentrate affluence and concentrate immigration based on the work of sampson morenoff and earls .
 concentrated disadvantage be define as the percentage of family in the census tract with income below the poverty line percentage of family receive public assistance percentage of person unemployed and percentage of female-headed household with child .
 concentrated affluence be measure by percentage of family with income of or much percentage of adult with a college education or much and percentage of the civilian labor force in professional and managerial occupation .
 finally the concentrate immigration scale be compose of the percent hispanic among the population percent foreign-born and percent linguistically isolate household percent of household lack at least one member who speak english well .
 principal component analysis confirm that the variable use for each scale be highly interrelate and load on a single factor .
 following sampson and colleague we first calculate z score for each variable in all census tract in cook county in each of the 3 scale and average them with equal weighting to create the scale .
 each of the 3 scale table 1 bottom panel have a mean that be close to zero and a standard deviation that be close to one they deviate slightly because census tract with no case of female breast cancer between 1994 and be exclude from the multilevel analysis .
 a number of measure of neighborhood change have be propose in the literature on gentrification in city 15 .
 to establish change in ses between and we consider 15 tract- level census variable .
 principal component analysis reveal that only 3 load strongly on a single factor .
 consequently we assess neighborhood change use a composite score of percent change between and in owner-occupied housing value percent of the civilian labor force in professional and managerial occupation and percent of adult with a college education .
 factor loading of this 3 variable be and respectively .
 this scale score be calculate as the average of equally weighted z score .
 data analysis .
 we utilize multilevel logistic regression to predict the log odd of distant metastasis at diagnosis accounting for the nesting of woman within census tract use hlm 21 .
 the two-level model consist of compositional characteristic concentrate disadvantage concentrate affluence and concentrate immigration and neighborhood change at the residential area level and patient 's age and race ethnicity at the individual level .
 use this model we examine the effect of neighborhood change between and on the likelihood of distant metastasis at diagnosis of breast cancer control for neighborhood socioeconomic and demographic characteristic in .
 result .
 as show in table 2 residential area socioeconomic upward change be significantly associate with the probability of distant metastasis at diagnosis of breast cancer .
 specifically for each unit increase about one standard deviation in the rate of neighborhood change the odd of distant metastasis at diagnosis increase by odd ratio or p .
 neighborhood compositional factor in be also relate to distant metastasis at diagnosis .
 greater concentrate disadvantage and concentrate immigration be associate with great odd of distant metastasis at diagnosis and neighborhood affluence be associate with reduce odd of distant metastasis at diagnosis .
 at the individual level the odd of distant metastasis at diagnosis of breast cancer be positively associate with age it increase about per year of age or p .
 african american compare with white be also much likely to have distant metastasis at diagnosis .
 in contrast hispanic woman be little likely to have distant metastasis at diagnosis compare with white woman .
 table .
 a multilevel logistic regression model of neighborhood upward change and distant breast cancer stage diagnosis 1994 .
 unstandardized coefficientstandard errorodds cip value upward african .
 full-size table .
 ci confidence interval .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 result reveal that upward economic change in local area as measure by increase in owner-occupied property value professional employment and education among neighborhood resident be associate with an increase risk of distant metastasis at diagnosis of breast cancer .
 consistent with ongoing research unpublished and previous study we find that level of neighborhood affluence and disadvantage be strongly relate to distant metastasis at diagnosis of breast cancer 2 and 5 .
 the significant positive effect of affluent neighborhood ses might imply that betterment in the economic status of a residential area should lead to early diagnosis of breast cancer and a well chance for survival among neighborhood resident .
 however study show that upward neighborhood ses change be actually associate with an increase risk of distant metastasis at diagnosis of breast cancer .
 it be possible that this effect result from an influx of woman at risk of distant metastasis at diagnosis into this improve area however we think this be unlikely .
 new neighborhood resident be likely to be young employ woman with good healthcare coverage .
 instead it be much likely that the woman with distant metastasis at diagnosis of breast cancer be long-standing resident of the neighborhood .
 upward neighborhood economic change for this woman may result in disruption of customary pattern of interaction with social network access to healthcare service and result social isolation and concern about relocation to other unfamiliar low socioeconomic area .
 stress and decrease social support result from neighborhood change may impact health via reduction in utilization of preventative health care include cancer screening .
 several study have find that increase social tie or receive support be relate to increased mammography use 22 and 23 .
 other study have find much modest and or insignificant relationship between indicator of social support and mammography use 24 and 25 .
 a recent study have show that woman with low income or education be even little likely to have a mammogram if they reside in a metropolitan statistical area with a high overall level of education or income 26 .
 decreased use of regular mammography and clinical breast exam place woman at risk for be diagnose with much advance breast cancer .
 in addition upward neighborhood ses change may disrupt access to health care particularly for poor woman through impact on federally qualify health center fqhcs and designation of a residential area as an mua .
 reduction in the percentage of resident live in poverty and the percentage of resident old than 65 year of age would be expect to directly affect this important federal designation .
 fqhcs locate in formerly disadvantaged neighborhood may struggle to provide service to low-income client who be increasingly geographically disperse .
 to the extent that distant metastasis at diagnosis of breast cancer be relate to difference in screening and or access to care result may have public health policy implication suggest that cancer screening and follow-up resource should be direct to area undergo change .
 in term of the debate among urban specialist on the effect of neighborhood change on health and well-being this result suggest that neighborhood improvement may not lead to early diagnosis of breast cancer rather the effect seem to be just the reverse .
 result be much consistent with the pessimistic speculation regard the social effect of deconcentration of poverty of galster 27 than the much optimistic view of kingsley and pettit 13 or jargowsky 12 .
 however it be important to note that we would expect that eventually economic betterment of census tract should have a positive effect on the early diagnosis of breast cancer .
 yet the process of upward neighborhood change have a temporary effect that put woman in this neighborhood at a high risk of late diagnosis than woman in unchanged neighborhood whether this effect be only temporary be an empirical finding deserving of far research .
 there be limitation to finding .
 the great be that we do not have individual level datum to measure each individual 's experience of neighborhood change .
 in particular we do not know how long woman live in residential area prior to breast cancer diagnosis and hence how long they have be expose to the neighborhood environment .
 this finding be also based on datum from chicago an urban area with a particularly large black-white differential in breast cancer survival and thus may not be generalizable to other city .
 we be replicate this analysis in collaboration with researcher at the center for population health and health disparity at tufts university boston area university of pennsylvania philadelphia area wayne state university detroit area and the rand corporation washington and suburban maryland and the lo angeles area .
 this 5 metropolitan area have vary racial ethnic and socioeconomic characteristic .
 finally the datum available do not allow us to directly examine issue such as stress social support and change in access to care in neighborhood experience upward ses change to much clearly elucidate mechanism by which change impact cancer diagnosis .
 future research should focus on understanding how neighborhood change impact woman across the ses continuum .
 it be probable that woman with the fewest resource may be much impact by neighborhood change .
 this be consistent with recent finding suggest that individual with low ses who live in area with high level of ses do not receive health benefit from this area and in fact exhibit high level of mortality 28 .
 it be also consistent with the literature 29 and 31 examine the effect of differential in socioeconomic and other status measure on disease outcome .
 while this literature have claim that income inequality have negative effect on health it have usually relied on comparison of large area such as state not census tract .
 future research should also differentiate between endogenous improvement in the ses of long-term resident and exogenous improvement result from the high ses of new resident change when examine health impact .
 this research be fund by the national cancer institute to warnecke pi .
 the cancer incidence datum use in this study be supply by the illinois department of public health .
 the department specifically disclaim responsibility for any analysis interpretation or conclusion .
 thank to kevin james and mayumi saegusa for help in prepare the census datum philip nyden give us valuable advice on process of social change in cook county .
 the first histone modification that be discover to be specifically associate with dsb be the phosphorylation of h2ax term -h2ax a chromatin mark induce by the phosphatidyl-inositol-3-oh kinase relate -h2ax encompass a chromatin region span thousand to million of base pair surround the lesion .
 the histone h2afx gene be not essential but genomic instability and sensitivity to dna-damaging agent be observe in absence .
 report from two independent study on mouse have reveal a significantly increase incidence of tumorigenesis in the absence of h2ax gene and the inactivate p53 tumor suppressor gene .
 breast cancer represent one of the much heterogeneous form of cancer both morphologically and genetically .
 in addition to brca1 and brca2 other gene identify as breast cancer susceptibility gene such as atm chek2 and tp53 be also know to function in the dna damage response pathway .
 hence it be speculate that the dna damage response pathway be a possible major target of inactivation in breast cancer .
 there be several study attempt to identify mutation in dna damage response gene and also numerous association study use candidate polymorphism .
 no clear major target have emerge but this study have provide enough evidence that some of the key ddr gene have a pivotal role in neoplastic progression .
 the histone h2afx gene map to a region commonly delete or translocated in several hematologic malignancy or solid tumor .
 mouse model study have raise the possibility that h2afx may serve as a tumor suppressor in human because haploinsufficiency for h2afxcontributes to cancer predisposition in mouse .
 a recent study demonstrate that in activate b cell h2ax suppress the progression of aid-dependent dsb to chromosomal break and translocation .
 this study fortify the allege tumor suppressor role of h2afx in human .
 in the present study we screen dna from 65 sporadic breast cancer patient for the presence of mutation in the h2afx gene and estimate the relative gene copy number of h2afx in a pair study by use quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction pcr .
 investigation reveal that although the gene sequence for h2afx be conserve there be a significant alteration in term of h2afx gene copy number in tumor sample when compare with adjacent normal tissue .
 material and .
 sample collection .
 according to the instruction of the institutional review board freeze mastectomy specimen tumor and pair adjacent nontumorous tissue of 65 consecutive patient with invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast be obtain from dharamshila cancer hospital and research institute in delhi between and .
 clinicopathologic variable measure at diagnosis be obtain from patient record and be describe in detail in table the enrolled patient do not receive any chemotherapy or radiation therapy before the operation and be free of distant metastases accord to preoperative evaluation .
 table .
 association of alter h2afx copy number with clinicopathologic feature of sporadic breast cancer patient .
 featuresdeletion amplification in the h2afx locuspdeletion in the h2afx locusp age yr 18 4915 28 23 37 36 menopausal status premenopausal14 27 9 22 postmenopausal11 38 37 tumor size 19 18 6 15 29 31 9 31 34 7 1 4 43 9 9 nodal status 35 11 31 13 14 2 13 24 8 3 7 33 8 8 stage 16 12 3 9 29 31 8 22 grade i4 11 1 8 ii11 37 9 35 17 16 estrogen receptora negative7 31 6 positive16 28 24 progesterone receptora negative7 6 29 positive16 29 25 d11s29 negative14 44 11 41 positive11 21 18 p53 somatic mutation negative21 54 16 49 positive4 11 .
 full-size table .
 significant p value be show in bold face .
 a data not available for six tumor sample .
 view within article .
 total dna extraction .
 total dna from tumor and adjacent normal tissue mcf7 and hela cell line be extract use the genelutetm mammalian genomic dna miniprep kit sigma-aldrich saint louis mo accord to the manufacturer 's instruction and the quantity be measure by nanodrop nanodrop technology wilmington de .
 sample that have purity in the range of nm ratio be use for highly efficient amplification .
 dna be dilute to a final concentration of 5 .
 mutation detection .
 pcr use the follow primer be use to amplify the h2afx gene promoter and 5 untranslated region utr forward 5acaaggattggctacatcagc3 and reverse 5gtgtacacggcccactgg3 coding region forward 5ggcctccagttcccagt3 and reverse 5cagtctgaagcggctcag3 3utr forward 5ccccatgccaccacaaag3 and reverse 5ccagcgcagacctatgaatg3 .
 pcr be perform in a dna thermal cycler geneamp pcr system applied biosystems foster city in a l reaction mixture contain ng of genomic dna pmol of forward and reverse primer mol l of each dntp 1 amplification buffer contain mmol l mgcl2 and unit of taq dna polymerase bangalore genei bangalore india .
 the pcr condition be as follow an initial denaturation step for 4 minute at 95c follow by cycle consist of 3 step 94c for 1 minute anneal at 64c 62c and 62c for three region of the h2afx gene respectively for 1 minute and 72c for 1 minute .
 a final extension step be perform at 72c for minute .
 thereafter the pcr product be check on a agarose gel by electrophoresis .
 purified product be use for direct dna sequencing by use an automate dna sequencer avant genetic analyzer applied biosystems .
 lo of heterozygosity loh analysis .
 the microsatellite marker d11s29 in the 11q23 region be amplify use primer sequence give in the genomic data base .
 pcr be perform under condition similar to those mention above except for the anneal temperature of follow by simple sequence length polymorphism and denaturing high performance liquid chromatography analysis transgenomics omaha ne .
 determination of h2afx copy number .
 the relative change of h2afx copy number between normal and tumor pair with gapdh as the reference gene be determine by real-time pcr follow the comparative threshold cycle method .
 the sequence of the primer use be 5 ttg gta aca ggc aca tct tcc 3 forward primer 5 ttc cgc aaa acg act ctt g 3 reverse primer for h2afx accession and 5 aac agc gac acc cat cct c 3 forward primer 5 cat acc agg aaa tga gct tga caa 3 reverse primer for hgapdh accession .
 the primer use for h2afx gene correspond to the 121 base pair bp amplicon locate in the 3utr region of the gene .
 the target and reference gene be amplify separately use the abi prism sequence detection system pe applied biosystems foster city usa .
 pcr be perform in a total volume of 25 l in each well contain l of sybr green pcr master mix pe applied biosystems 25 ng of genomic dna and pmol of each primer .
 pcr condition consist of an initial denaturation step of 95c for minute follow by cycle of 95c for 15 second and for 1 minute .
 all the reaction be carry out in duplicate and a negative control with no template be keep with every pcr run .
 for all pcr reaction threshold cycle ct number be establish by use sds rq software applied biosystems and the copy number normalize to a reference gene gapdh and relative to a calibrator normal sample of the respective pair be determine by the formula 2ct .
 a twofold increase or decrease in the copy number of h2afx in tumor sample than the corresponding pair normal sample be consider as amplification or deletion respectively .
 comparison of h2afx copy number in mcf7 and hela cell line be carry out similarly .
 statistical analysis .
 to analyze the correlation between tumor with alter h2afx copy number and clinicopathologic parameter pearson chi-square test or fisher 's exact test be apply to evaluate the difference between group .
 p be consider statistically significant .
 .
 sequencing of the h2afx gene .
 the present study of 65 sporadic breast cancer patient reveal no alteration in the whole coding region promoter 5utr and a part of the 3utr of the h2afx gene .
 gene copy number alteration in breast tumor .
 copy number analysis of the h2afx gene be perform in 65 sporadic breast cancer sample and the adjacent normal tissue use gapdh as a reference gene .
 exponential growth curve for h2afx and gapdh gene with five value range from to copy be show in 1 a and b .
 the dissociation curve show a single sharp peak corresponding to the amplification of a single size product 1 c and d .
 there be no primer dimer formation in either case .
 the regression curve show good linearity .
 the correlation coefficient r2 be and whereas the slope be and for the h2afx and gapdh standard curve respectively indicate nearly pcr efficiency for both the gene .
 this ensure an acceptable degree of precision for comparative ct method to determine relative copy number 1 e and f .
 a representative real-time graph of no alteration deletion and amplification of the h2afx gene copy number be show in the quantitative real-time pcr analysis of 65 pair sporadic breast cancer tissue show an alteration in 25 65 of case .
 among this alteration we observe both amplification and deletion with respect to normal sample but deletion account for 19 65 of the case and amplification in about 6 65 of sample .
 full-size image 135k exponential growth curve for five serial dilution a and b dissociation curve c and d and standard curve e and f for h2afx and gapdh respectively .
 view within article .
 full-size image representative amplification plot show a no alteration b deletion and c amplification of the h2afx gene copy number in sporadic breast tumor sample compare to match normal tissue .
 view within article .
 full-size image 18k copy number analysis of the h2afx gene by quantitative pcr in 65 pair sporadic breast cancer sample .
 bar represent the copy number in tumor tissue relative to normal tissue calculate by 2ct .
 gapdh be use as the reference gene .
 in each pair normal be use as a calibrator .
 a value of 2 or twofold difference as show by the dot line be consider as an amplification or deletion respectively in comparison to the normal value set at 1 show by the continuous line .
 view within article .
 deletion in h2afx gene copy number in mcf7 .
 comparison of h2afx gene copy number alteration between dna from hela and mcf7 breast cancer cell line cell reveal a twofold deletion in h2afx gene copy number in mcf7 but the gapdh gene copy number remain constant for both .
 full-size image 57k amplification plot show alteration in h2afx gene copy number in mcf7 compare to hela cell line .
 view within article .
 association with clinicopathologic feature .
 the association between h2afx copy number alteration in 25 sample and the patient 's age histologic grade stage lymph node metastasis hormone receptor status d11s29 marker instability and p53 mutation status datum not show be analyzed .
 patient with estrogen and progesterone receptor positive tumor have significantly alter copy number of h2afx than those with er pr negative tumor p and respectively table 1 .
 when compare with deletion separately however the trend be maintain for er pr-positive tumor though not highly significant and a borderline association be obtain with histologic grade .
 the association between the h2afx gene alteration and loh for the d11s29 marker locate 1 megabase mb from the 3 end of the gene reveal that despite the absence of a significant correlation of the tumor be positive for both d11s29 marker instability and h2afx gene alteration and be positive when compare with deletion alone .
 the association between p53 somatic mutation and h2afx gene alteration be nonsignificant p table 1 .
 discussion .
 the rationale to investigate the status of the h2afx gene in sporadic breast cancer patient be based on the finding that h2ax-deficient mouse present all the feature of genomic instability syndrome and that the gene be locate 11 mb telomeric to atm at a region that be commonly delete in human cancer include breast cancer .
 the absence of the h2afx gene mutation or any sequence variation in dna from 65 pair breast cancer sample match with the result make in two previous report one in familial breast cancer case and another in 112 haematologic malignancy .
 this suggest that h2afx be a highly conserve gene and that a germline or somatic mutation be not very common for this gene .
 however a rare disease cause mutation still be a possibility .
 interestingly quantitative real-time pcr analysis show gene copy number alteration in tumor tissue of 25 65 case .
 this somatic event involve both amplification and deletion .
 the gene dosage effect as reflect in the observation make have be know to cause developmental defect in model organism and in certain inherit human disease and to have implication in tumor biology .
 in this context haploinsufficiency of atm blm 53bp1 and h2afx the key dna damage response gene have be report to play a role in tumorigenesis .
 observation of alteration in the copy number of the h2afx gene the majority of which show deletion and allelic instability loh msi in d11s29 marker emphasize the genomic instability of the region in the observe tumor sample .
 furthermore the breast cancer cell line mcf7 also show a twofold deletion in h2afx gene copy number corroborate the observation in breast carcinoma tissue and suggest that the deletion in the h2afx gene copy number do have a role in breast carcinogenesis .
 the h2ax protein be know to get phosphorylated within minute after dsb induction which be essential for tether the two break end together thereby prevent progression to deleterious translocation event .
 the phosphorylated h2ax molecule per dsb be require in large amount cover megabase of chromatin with thousand of nucleosomes .
 any reduction in the amount of protein account for improper anchor of break dna end and problem in retention of repair factor and completion of the repair process .
 the 11q distal region have long be know to be associate with human cancer .
 in-situ analysis and microarray-based comparative genome hybridization have show deletion of this region in several cancer .
 however copy number variation of any particular gene in this region have not be explore .
 in this context to knowledge the present study be the first report of alteration in copy number of the h2afx gene locate at in sporadic breast cancer patient .
 although the majority of case in study show deletion about of case show amplification for the h2afx gene .
 it be speculate that deletion and amplification probably lead to insufficiency and overexpression respectively of h2afx in sporadic breast cancer suggest that a proper gene balance dosage of the gene may be critical for normal cellular function .
 however it be show in a previous report that overexpression of h2ax in do not have any effect on mef cell .
 therefore the implication of overexpression amplification of h2afx gene still remain elusive .
 datum demonstrate a significant association between h2afx copy number alteration and estrogen- and progesterone-positive tumor .
 furthermore when compare with h2afx deletion alone the trend be maintain and the histologic grade also show a positive association .
 the fact that we do not obtain a very high significance value for histologic grade and tumor stage be probably because a sizable number of tumor show alteration in early stage as well .
 it be know that er and pr expression increase in the early stage of tumorigenesis and it can be speculate that dysregulation of hormone receptor expression together with h2afx alteration be an early driving force for uncontrolled proliferation lead to accumulation of threshold level of mutation require for tumor development .
 whether the alteration in h2afx be an associate event or be a consequence of increase receptor expression remain to be explore .
 there be however no correlation between alter h2afx copy number and the prevalence of p53 somatic mutation which be generally know to occur in er pr-negative tumor .
 based on preliminary result it be likely that p53 mutation and h2afx alteration be involve in different step of breast cancer progression .
 in conclusion the present study be the first demonstration of h2afx gene copy number alteration in sporadic breast cancer .
 this possibly contribute to tumor heterogeneity an aspect not explore to date and may help classify tumor accordingly to achieve well chemotherapeutic intervention .
 acknowledgment .
 cooperation from doctor and staff of dharamshila cancer hospital and the patient involve in the study be acknowledge .
 be support by postdoctoral fellowship from department of biotechnology india and be support by a predoctoral fellowship from council of scientific and industrial research india .
 the expression of p53 be induce upon cellular stress that include dna damage and oncogene activation .
 overexpression of p53 arrest the cell cycle and induce dna repair and apoptosis 1 .
 germ line mutation in p53 lead to the development of cancer at an early stage and inactivate mutation in p53 be associate with the initiation and progression of much than malignancy in human 2 3 4 and 5 .
 mutation in p53 gene inhibit activity and increase breast cancer incidence .
 single nucleotide polymorphism at codon 72 in p53 gene that replace arginine with proline g with c also alter p53 protein activity 6 .
 similarly g to a substitution in intron-6 at 61 bp downstream to exon-6 may also alter p53 activity 7 .
 a close functional relationship between murine double minute-2 mdm-2 an oncogene locate on the long arm of chromosome 12 and p53 gene be well know 8 .
 mdm-2 protein negatively regulate p53 function in multiple independent way that be by binding to transcription activation domain inhibit acetylation promote nuclear export and much importantly promote proteasomal degradation through ubiquitination 9 11 and 12 .
 the p53 activate mdm-2 transcription and mdm-2 inhibit p53 function .
 mdm-2 and p53 interaction and relative ratio regulate cell division 13 14 and 15 .
 overexpression of mdm-2 enable damage cell to escape the cell cycle checkpoint and become carcinogenic 16 .
 naturally occur sequence variation in mdm-2 promoter result in an alter mdm-2 protein expression lead to the alteration in p53 mediate tumor suppression activity .
 t to g polymorphism at in mdm-2 promoter increase affinity with stimulatory protein sp1 and subsequently attenuate p53 pathway 17 .
 few study on the association of mdm-2 polymorphism with breast cancer risk have show positive result whereas much of the investigator demonstrate lack of such association 18 19 and .
 because mdm-2 snp regulate p53 expression and codon 72 be critical for p53 function the combination of this polymorphism be expect to determine the risk of breast cancer much accurately than alone .
 the polymorphism in p53 and mdm-2 gene and relationship with breast cancer susceptibility vary from one population to another or one ethnic group to another depending upon the residential locality it occupy and the level of environmental exposure .
 the present investigation be therefore undertake to investigate the association between the polymorphism in mdm-2 p53 arg72pro and p53 intron-6 and breast cancer risk in indian woman .
 material and method chemical .
 agarose acrylamide methylene bisacrylamide boric acid bromophenol blue chloroform ethylene-diamine-tetra-acetic acid formamide glycerol magnesium chloride sodium chloride sodium carbonate sucrose trisodium citrate tris base triton xylene cyanol and phenol be purchase from sigma aldrich louis mo .
 polymerase chain reaction pcr purification kit be procure from qiagen cologne germany and acetic acid formaldehyde taq polymerase hot start taq polymerase proteinase-k dntp pcr primer pcr reaction kit and other chemical require for the study be procure locally either from bangalore genei or from sisco research laboratory srl india .
 selection of subjects .
 the medical ethic committee from participate institution approve the study .
 a write preinformed consent be obtain before blood collection from the individual involve in this study .
 the blood sample be collect from control and breast cancer patient by expert clinician at sanjay gandhi postgraduate institute of medical science sgpgims lucknow .
 the case be prevalent and identify at sgpgims .
 a total of female control and female breast cancer patient range from 25 to 65 year of age be recruit for blood collection .
 case and control be from the same ethnic group and be resident of lucknow or adjacent locality in north india that kanpur and agra .
 special emphasis be give to recruit the patient and control from similar locality to avoid difference cause by environmental factor .
 the control female do not possess any type of tumor cancer and also do not exhibit any genetic disorder or visible disease .
 the sample be collect from unrelated family to rule out the possibility of direct involvement of genetic variable .
 patient with clinically define symptom of breast cancer be consider for this study .
 patient who do not have a history of breast cancer in family be consider in this study to avoid the involvement of know familial factor and to properly assess the contribution of this single nucleotide polymorphism snp .
 patient be classify in premenopausal and postmenopausal group based on the case history and information give by them .
 some of the basic demographic of patient and control be summarize in table 1a and table 1b .
 table 1a .
 basic demographic of control and breast cancer patient recruit in the study .
 basic demographicspatients n control n age mean sd year year smoking habit smoker3 4 body mass index mean kg kg m2 menopausal status number premenopausal34 69 36 age at menarche mean year .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 table 1b .
 characteristic of tumor and treatment regimen in patient recruit in the study .
 total patient n tumor histology number ductal96 nodal status number positive67 negative37 stage at diagnosis number stage stage stage iii46 surgery number yes91 no13 chemotherapy number yes74 radiotherapy number yes83 no21 hormonal therapy tamoxifen number yes19 no85 neoadjuvant chemotherapy number yes19 no85 full-size table .
 view within article .
 blood collection and dna extraction .
 blood be draw through venous puncture from control and breast cancer patient and collect in vial contain trisodium citrate v v ph an anticoagulant .
 genomic dna be extract from the whole blood mix with anticoagulant use salt out procedure as describe 21 and 22 .
 dna be precipitate from the aqueous phase use ethanol and store at till far use .
 the desalt dna be use to amplify the desire gene segment use specific primer through pcr .
 pcr and snp genotyping .
 forward and reverse primer be synthesize and exon 4 5 and 6 include some intronic region of p53 gene be amplify separately and sequenced 23 .
 the forward and reverse primer for mdm-2 promoter be synthesize and dna segment contain mdm-2 be amplify use amplification refractory mutation system arms-pcr 24 .
 positive and negative control be use wherever essential .
 dna sequencing .
 pcr amplicon of p53 be purify and sequenced use automate dna sequencer at the centre for genomic application tcga new delhi india .
 the sequence analysis be perform use dna star and chromas 231 available online software .
 single strand conformation polymorphism for assess codon 72 variant be also perform 25 .
 statistical analysis .
 the statistical analysis be do use epi info-5 software .
 allelic and genotypic frequency be calculate and express up to two digit after the decimal .
 haplotype frequency between case and control for p53 arg72pro and p53 intron-6 g a be calculate by snpstats online software the unadjusted odd ratio or be calculate by 2 2 contingency table and statistical significance for or be calculate use the chi-square test .
 however fisher exact test also be use where expect cell frequency be little than five .
 we calculate the or separately with confidence interval for genotype frequency in total premenopausal and postmenopausal breast cancer patient as compare with respective control .
 minimum detectable or with power at the level of significance with sample size of each in case and control with prevail percent of homozygous wild type in control be in case of protective association and in case of increase risk 26 .
 hardy-weinberg equilibrium for each snp in case and control be calculate use hardy-weinberg calculator .
 although the study be based on application of well-established and highly reproducible molecular technique three experiment for each sample still be perform to confirm the reproducibility .
 result t to g in mdm-2 gene .
 and allele in total premenopausal and postmenopausal case and control be analyzed use arms-pcr .
 neither snp nor mdm-2 genotype be associate significantly with breast cancer risk .
 combined g genotype be also not associate with the breast cancer risk .
 table .
 allelic and genotypic frequency of polymorphism at t to g position of mdm-2 gene in case control and breast cancer patient in indian woman .
 patient frequency patient case control frequency control odds ratio or p value total womenn allele frequency total number of allele 98 97 113 genotypic frequency total number of genotype t 25 25 reference t 48 47 g 31 33 79 total premenopausal womenn 34n 69 allele frequency total number of allele 37 64 31 74 genotypic frequency total number of genotype t 11 17 reference t 15 g 22 23 52 total postmenopausal allele frequency total number of allele 61 33 79 39 genotypic frequency total number of genotype t 14 reference t 33 17 g 23 11 56 28 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 codon 72 arg72pro polymorphism in p53 gene .
 significant protective association of p53 heterozygous arginine variant with breast cancer risk be find in total and postmenopausal woman .
 or for arg pro g c genotype in total and postmenopausal woman be ci p and ci p respectively .
 pro pro genotype alone be not associate with breast cancer risk in the study population .
 arg pro g c and pro pro c c genotype in combination show significant protective association in total and postmenopausal woman .
 table .
 allelic and genotypic frequency of polymorphism in codon 72 of p53 gene in case control and breast cancer patient in indian woman .
 patient frequency patient case control frequency control odds ratio or p value total allele frequency total number of allele 137 121 71 89 genotypic frequency total number of genotype g 46 28 reference g 45 65 c 13 12 58 77 total premenopausal womenn 34n 69 allele frequency total number of allele 45 83 23 55 genotypic frequency total number of genotype g 16 22 reference g 13 39 c 18 47 total postmenopausal womenn 36 allele frequency total number of allele 92 38 48 34 genotypic frequency total number of genotype g reference g 32 26 c .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 intron-6 g to a polymorphism in p53 gene .
 g to a polymorphism in intron-6 be not associate significantly with the breast cancer risk in total premenopausal or postmenopausal woman .
 g a and a a genotype alone and in combination also be not associate significantly with the breast cancer risk however the frequency of g a genotype be great in postmenopausal control woman .
 table .
 allelic and genotypic frequency of polymorphism in intron-6 of p53 gene in case control and breast cancer patient in indian woman .
 patient frequency patient case control frequency control odds ratio or p value total womenn allele frequency total number of allele 176 28 34 genotypic frequency total number of genotype g 74 reference g 28 a 24 31 total premenopausal womenn 34n 69 allele frequency total number of allele 57 119 11 19 genotypic frequency total number of genotype g 25 52 reference g 15 a 17 total postmenopausal allele frequency total number of allele 123 57 17 15 genotypic frequency total number of genotype g 55 22 reference g 13 13 a 15 14 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 estimation of p53 haplotype .
 among p53 arg72pro and p53 intron-6 g a haplotype only c-a haplotype show high frequency in control postmenopausal woman as compare with respective patient .
 table .
 p53 haplotype arg72pro and intron-6 g a distribution between case and control .
 estimated haplotype frequency patient control odds ratio or p value total woman total allele n n 131 121 reference 49 55 22 34 total premenopausal woman total allele n 34 68 n 69 138 43 83 reference 14 36 19 total postmenopausal woman total allele n n 36 72 88 38 reference 35 19 13 15 full-size table .
 view within article .
 association of mdm-2 and p53 arg72pro polymorphism in combination .
 all possible genotypic combination for both gene be analyzed in total premenopausal and postmenopausal woman .
 mdm-2 g g genotype be not associate with pre- or postmenopausal breast cancer risk when analyzed alone however a significant protective association with the breast cancer risk in premenopausal woman be observe when analyzed in combination with p53 arg pro g c or ci p .
 although the frequency of g g codon 72 in p53 and t g mdm-2 genotype in combination in total patient and control be calculate as and no significant association with breast cancer risk be observe .
 the p53 arg pro g and mdm-2 g g combination do not exhibit significant association with total and postmenopausal breast cancer risk or ci p for total and or ci p value for postmenopausal woman .
 mdm-2 t g and g g combine genotype in combination with arginine heterozygous variant in p53 g c g show significant protective association only in premenopausal woman .
 the p53 c c and mdm-2 t g genotype in combination also be not associate with breast cancer risk because or for c c and t g combine in total and premenopausal woman be ci p and ci p respectively .
 in the present study none of the postmenopausal control woman exhibit this genotype in combination .
 table .
 combinational genotypic frequency of mdm-2 and arg72pro polymorphism in case control and breast cancer patient in indian woman .
 underlined letter indicate mdm-2 genotype .
 patient frequency patient case control frequency control odds ratio or p value total womenn genotypic frequency total number of genotype g g t reference g g t 23 13 g g g 13 11 g g 36 24 g c t 11 18 g c t 21 32 g c g 13 15 g c 34 47 c c t c c t c c g c c total premenopausal genotypic frequency total number of genotype g g t reference g g t 11 g g g g g 11 19 g c t 12 g c t 17 g c g g c 27 c c t c c t c c g c c total postmenopausal genotypic frequency total number of genotype g g t reference g g t 17 g g g g g 25 g c t g c t 14 15 g c g 12 g c 26 c c t c c t c c g c c .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 association of mdm-2 and p53 intron-6 polymorphism in combination .
 statistical analysis of all possible combination for g to a intron-6 in p53 and t to g mdm-2 polymorphism do not show significant association with breast cancer risk in total premenopausal and postmenopausal woman .
 although p53 g a and mdm-2 t g in combination show difference in frequency between case and control in total premenopausal and postmenopausal woman but lack significant association with breast cancer risk .
 table .
 combinational genotypic frequency of mdm-2 and p53 intron-6 polymorphism in case control and breast cancer patient in indian woman .
 underlined letter indicate mdm- 2 genotype .
 patient frequency patient case control frequency control odds ratio or p value total womenn genotypic frequency total number of genotype g g t 16 16 reference g g t 38 31 g g g 26 27 g g 64 58 g a t g a t 16 g a g g a 12 a a t a a t a a g a a total premenopausal genotypic frequency total number of genotype g g t 11 reference g g t 12 22 g g g 19 g g 18 41 g a t g a t g a g g a a a t a a t g a a g a a total postmenopausal genotypic frequency total number of genotype g g t reference g g t 26 g g g g g 46 17 g a t g a t g a g g a a a t t a a t a a g a a .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 hardy-weinberg equilibrium .
 the genotypic frequency for each snp in case and control do not show statistically significant deviation from expect frequency except for p53 arg72pro polymorphism in total and postmenopausal control .
 the observe frequency for total control be 28 65 12 and expect frequency be for g g g c and c c p .
 similarly for postmenopausal control the observe frequency be 6 26 4 and expect be for g g g c and c c respectively p .
 discussion .
 breast cancer be the second much common cancer among female after uterine cervix in india 27 .
 women with germ line mutation in p53 gene be at high risk for develop breast cancer .
 a polymorphism at codon 72 in p53 gene significantly affect function .
 arg 72 be much susceptible to degradation by human papilloma virus hpv e6 type-18 protein and suppress cellular transformation much effectively than pro 72 6 and 28 .
 on the other hand arg 72 be much efficient than pro72 at induce apoptosis 29 .
 because of low ability to induce apoptosis in vitro pro 72 be speculate to be associate with breast cancer risk 29 however several contradictory report be available within and outside the caucasian and japanese population 29 .
 racial ethnic and environmental difference play a critical role in the pathogenesis of breast cancer and be probably responsible for differential finding .
 india be a country of diverse racial ethnic and environmental exposure therefore assessment of contribution of germ line mutation in p53 gene and association with breast cancer risk be inevitable in indian population .
 tumor suppressor protein p53 be regulate in low level in normally divide cell through interaction with mdm-2 11 15 and .
 incidence of breast cancer be great in a population possess reduce p53 activity because of polymorphism in p53 along with increase mdm-2 expression due to polymorphism in mdm-2 gene .
 reverse combination within a population attenuate breast cancer risk .
 although various investigator demonstrate independent association lack of association of polymorphism in p53 and mdm-2 gene 2 19 23 31 32 33 34 35 and 36 with breast cancer risk and only few report be available for combinational study 18 but no such report be available in indian population .
 in this study an increase frequency of g c decrease frequency of g g and lack of significant difference in the frequency of c c genotype in p53 arg72pro be find in case control in indian as compare with japanese woman 23 and 33 .
 on the other hand non-ashkenazi jew control exhibit decrease frequency and ashkenazi jew control show increase frequency of g g genotype when compare with indian control 37 .
 lack of significant difference in genotypic frequency of g g and decrease frequency of g c be find in turkish control as compare with indian control 38 .
 frequency of mdm-2 in indian control show some similarity with the chinese and mark dissimilarity with the british and african-americans or white control population 19 34 and 39 .
 an association of g allele in p53 arg72pro with breast cancer risk be observe in this study although be not statistically significant .
 g allele in p53 induce apoptosis and be biologically weak in ability to prevent cellular transformation than c allele 23 29 and and probably act as a breast cancer prone allele in indian population .
 even in caucasian and turkish g g homozygous increase breast cancer risk 38 and 41 .
 contradictory report be also available in literature implicate the involvement of pro pro c c genotype in breast cancer risk especially in estrogen receptor positive postmenopausal woman in japanese 23 and 33 .
 although lack of association between arg arg g g genotype in p53 and breast cancer risk be observe but the frequency of p53 arginine homozygous g g in combination with mdm-2 variant t t or t g be high in indian breast cancer patient as compare with control .
 this also be explain on the basis of predominantly regulate activation of arginine allele during cancer development or cause by variable environmental condition unique food habit and other life style factor in india .
 although some control and patient be not properly age match but similar pattern be expect in properly age match control as snp be germline mutation and do not significantly change with the age in a population .
 molecular epidemiological study on the association of combination of snp in mdm-2 and p53 gene with breast cancer risk be perform since genetic variation in p53 gene play a critical role in the pathogenesis of breast cancer 2 3 4 and 5 and mdm-2 inhibit p53 activity by regulate location stability and transcription 42 .
 although a significant protective association between arg pro g c genotype and breast cancer risk be find in total and postmenopausal woman but lack of statistically significant association be observe between mdm-2 and breast cancer risk in total premenopausal and postmenopausal indian woman .
 the present study provide an evidence for early finding that mdm-2 polymorphism alone be not significantly associate with sporadic or heritable breast cancer risk 19 34 and 35 .
 mdm-2 polymorphism alone do not exhibit significant protective association with total premenopausal and postmenopausal breast cancer risk however a significant protective association be observe in premenopausal woman contain both heterozygous arginine and homozygous variant .
 mdm-2 be not find to be associate with early onset or familial breast cancer in british and german population and sporadic breast cancer onset in chinese african-americans or white and turkish population 19 34 35 36 and 39 .
 during the sequence analysis a single nucleotide polymorphism be see in intron-6 of p53 gene that be also report by investigator in other population 7 .
 intron-6 polymorphism be also analyzed alone and in combination with mdm-2 to assess association with breast cancer risk in indian woman .
 individual and combine genotype analysis of intron-6 with mdm-2 do not show any association with breast cancer risk in indian woman .
 the discrepancy in association of polymorphism in various gene with breast cancer risk be due to ethnic variation difference in environmental factor and life style among various population .
 in conclusion mdm-2 polymorphism alone be use as a predictive factor for assess breast cancer risk in indian population as report in some population 19 34 36 and 39 .
 however p53 arg72pro alone or in combination with mdm-2 may help in assess breast cancer risk in indian woman .
 the study show protective association of p53 arg72pro heterozygous variant with postmenopausal and homozygous variant along with p53 arg72pro heterozygous variant with premenopausal breast cancer risk in indian woman .
 the result obtain thus suggest a variable association pattern of polymorphism between premenopausal and postmenopausal breast cancer risk in indian population .
 the expression of gene depend on several intrinsic and extrinsic factor therefore polymorphism in p53 or mdm-2 gene alone not predict the breast cancer risk with absolute confidence and effect cause by polymorphism in this gene might be counteract with some other variable that include genetic and environmental factor .
 understanding the polymorphism in other gene of various pathway involve in breast cancer onset and regulatory gene in combination with p53 and mdm-2 may probably assess accurate breast cancer risk .
 we thank the university grant commission ugc new delhi india for provide a research fellowship to virendra singh .
 we also thank tcga new delhi india for sequencing pcr amplicon .
 the itrc communication number of this article be 2518 .
 the deregulation of gene involve in cell cycle extracellular matrix remodel cell adhesion and motility have be report in the much invasive stage of the disease .
 although early detection and effective treatment modality for oestrogen-dependent breast cancer improve the overall cure rate the prognosis for oestrogen-independent breast cancer be poor .
 the primary treatment modality of this phenotype which constitute much than of all case be cytoreductive surgery follow by adjuvant chemotherapy radiotherapy or both .
 however there be a need to develop additional mode of treatment for this important group of patient .
 angiogenesis the process by which new blood vessel be form from an exist vascular network be an essential requirement for tumour growth and metastasis .
 this intricate process involve proteolysis of basement membrane endothelial cell migration proliferation and matrix remodel .
 the disruption of the vascular basement membrane may facilitate extravasation of endothelial cell lead to the formation of neovascular sprout as well as intravasation of tumour cell into the vessel affect the metastatic spread of malignant cell .
 thus the critical event in cancer progression be the development of the ability to invade surround tissue .
 vascular endothelial growth factor vegf the main positive regulator of angiogenesis bind to receptor result in endothelial cell activation proliferation migration invasion and survival .
 there be six glycosylated isoform of vegf vegf-a vegf-b vegf-c vegf-d vegf-e and placenta growth factor-1 plgf-1 .
 vegf-a which be the much extensively study have be implicate in tumour-induced angiogenesis .
 two of the multiple mature molecule of vegf-a vegf121 and vegf165 be the main soluble and biologically active form .
 the signal transduction of vegf be mediate through the tyrosine-kinase domain of intracellular portion of the receptor .
 vegf initiate an intracellular signal cascade which lead to change in expression of the gene promote endothelial cell migration and proliferation as well as produce an increase in the permeability of capillary .
 angiogenesis be a key for the growth and metastasis of solid tumour such as breast cancer .
 high level of vegf have be show to correlate with poor prognosis and decrease overall survival for both node-positive and node-negative breast cancer patient .
 in addition vegf may function as an autocrine factor on breast carcinoma cell to maintain survival .
 vasoactive intestinal peptide vip be a 28 amino acid neuropeptide that belong to a large family of structurally-related peptide include pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide pacap glucagon secretin and other molecule .
 vip be a pleiotropic peptide since it be express in distinct subpopulation of neurons in much major structure of both the central and peripheral nervous system as well as in endocrine paracrine cell .
 this neuroendocrine peptide exert a wide array of biological effect include those on exocrine and endocrine secretion immunomodulation muscle relaxation and cell proliferation and differentiation .
 vip and pacap bind with high affinity to vpac1 and vpac2 receptor whereas pac1 receptor bind pacap with high affinity and vip with low affinity .
 this receptor subclasses be couple to stimulatory guanine nucleotide binding protein g result in adenylate cyclase activation and little commonly to ip3 and other signal pathway .
 the increase in camp cause protein kinase a pka activation which may phosphorylate protein substrate lead to increased oncogene expression .
 in many human cancer cell system study vip behave as trophic factor and exert action such as protection from apoptosis .
 in this regard several evidence indicate that vip may play an important role in growth differentiation and function in normal and neoplastic breast .
 thus vip have be consider as an additional breast cancer growth factor .
 in this context a high occurrence of vpac1-receptor gene expression have be report in human breast cancer cell line carcinoma and metastasis .
 the aim of the present report be to evaluate the possible implication of vip in the angiogenesis of breast cancer .
 previous in vitro study from laboratory have show that vip increase vegf expression and secretion in the androgen-responsive prostate tumour cell line lncap .
 this fact suggest an important role for vip as a proangiogenic factor which contribute to the regulation of the tissue vascularization in prostate cancer .
 breast and prostate cancer be hormone-related cancer that possess similar pathological entity and exhibit similar epidemiological pattern .
 on the other hand vip regulate vegf expression and secretion in lung cancer cell cause intense neovascularization in a rat sponge model and induce angiogenesis in lactotrophs by autocrine paracrine mechanism .
 the present study investigate vip effect upon vegf expression as well as the mediate signal pathway involve in both oestrogen-dependent t47d and -independent mda-mb-468 breast cancer cell line .
 it be a contribution to the understanding of the underlie pathogenesis of disease progression which be the main prerequisite for develop effective preventive and therapeutic strategy for breast cancer .
 material and .
 reagent .
 synthetic vip be purchase from neomps strasbourg france n- 2- p-bromocinnamylamino ethyl -5-isoquinolinesulfonamide h89 from alexis grnberg germany and wortmannin from calbiochem schwalbach germany .
 other reagent be obtain from sigma alcobendas spain .
 cell line .
 oestrogen-dependent t47d and oestrogen-independent mda-mb-468 breast carcinoma cell line be obtain from the american type culture collection manassas va usa .
 the mda-mb-468 cell line be cultured in roswell park memorial institute medium life technology barcelona spain supplement with antibiotic antimycotic and foetal bovine serum fbs .
 the t47d cell line be cultured in the same medium contain 8 g ml insulin .
 the cell be grow at 37 c in a humidify air carbon dioxide atmosphere and split weekly with trypsin edta .
 all culture medium component be purchase from invitrogen barcelona spain .
 rna extraction and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction rt-pcr total rna be extract from cultured t47d and mda-mb-468 cancer cell use trir reagent biotech lab houston tx usa accord to the manufacturer 's instruction .
 two g 8 g for vpac2 receptor of total rna be reverse-transcribed into complementary dna cdna by moloney murine leukaemia virus reverse transcriptase accord to the manufacturer 's guideline life technology .
 in order to rule out genomic dna contamination the rt be also perform without reverse transcriptase .
 two l 8 and l for vip and vpac2 receptor respectively of the rt reaction be use for each pcr amplification with a primer set which amplify cdna for human vip vpac1 and vpac2 receptor vegf isoform or -actin .
 the number of cycle be determine in preliminary experiment to be within the exponential range of pcr amplification .
 negative control with water instead of cdna be run in parallel to exclude different contamination .
 the pcr amplification be perform in a termocycler perkin elmer applied biosystems foster city usa with the cycle profile previously report .
 after the last cycle there be a final extension for min at 72 pcr product be electrophoresed on a agarose gel stain with ethidium bromide and visualised under uv light .
 bands of pcr-amplified product be scan and analyzed semiquantitatively use an imaging system gel doc xr bio-rad madrid spain .
 all the experiment be repeat at least three time and similar result be obtain .
 the mrna level of the study gene be normalize those for -actin .
 table .
 oligonucleotide primer use in rt-pcr analysis for vip vpac1 and vpac2 receptor -actin and vegf165 expression in oestrogen-dependent t47d and oestrogen-independent mda-mb-468 breast cancer cell .
 mrnaprimerssequence 5 3 product size bp used semiquantitative rt-pcrquantitative real-time rt-pcr vipsenseacg tca ctc aga tgc agt ctt antisensetgc tcc tct ttc cat tca gaa ttxx vegfsenseatc ttc aag cca tcc tgt gtg c391 365 231x antisensetca ccg cct cgg ctt gtc aca tx vegf165sensegac aag aaa atc cct gtg antisenseaac gcg agt ctg tgt ttt tgcx vpac1-rsenseatg tgc aga tga tcg agg tg324x antisensetgt agc cgg tct tca cag aax sensectg ggt cag tct ggt ggg antisensetcc gag acc tag cat tcg ctx vpac2-rsensetac aga gct tct gag gtc tc519x antisensetac tgc agg aag acc agg cx sensetca gtg ctg gtc aag gac antisenseaag acc agg ctc agc ttg cax -actinsenseaga agg att cct atg tgg antisensecat gtc gtc cca gtt ggt gacxx .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 single-step quantitative real-time rt-pcr .
 quantitative real-time rt-pcr analysis be carry out use ng of rna for each sample and sybr green pcr master mix applied biosystems in one-step rt-pcr protocol accord to the manufacturer 's instruction .
 the thermal cycling condition be min at 48 c for rt and min at 95 c to activate multiscribe reverse transcriptase follow by cycle of 95 c for 15 s and c for 1 min .
 all pcr reaction be perform in an applied biosystems pcr system abi-prism sds with the specific primer show in table the relative quantification be normalize to -actin .
 result of real-time pcr be represent as ct value where ct be define as the threshold cycle number at which product be first detect by fluorescence .
 the amount of target be normalize to an endogenous reference the housekeeping gene for -actin .
 ct be the difference in ct value derived from the corresponding gene in each sample assay and -actin gene .
 ct represent the difference between the pair sample .
 the n-fold differential ratio be express as 2 ct .
 quantification of vip and vegf .
 t47d and mda-mb-468 cell be place in mm cell culture dish at a density of 2 cell in complete medium for 24 h .
 control receive medium only .
 cell be wash once with ice-cold pbs and then harvest scrape into ice-cold pbs and then pelleted by centrifugation at g for 5 min at 4 for preparation of cytosolic extract the pack cell be resuspended into mm hepes ph mm kcl mm edta mm egta 1 mm dithiothreitol dtt mm phenyl methylsulfonylfluoride pmsf g ml aprotinin g ml leupeptin g ml pepstatin 5 mm naf 1 mm na3vo4 and 1 mm nan3 .
 cell be keep on ice for 15 min then nonidet be add and the cytosolic extract be pelleted by centrifugation at g for s at 4 the supernatant be store at c in order to perform far assay .
 vip level in the cytosolic fraction be determine by an enzyme immunoanalysis eia with a commercially available kit accord to manufacturer 's instruction phoenix pharmaceutical karlsruhe germany .
 the antiserum have cross-reactivity with human vip and vip 28 .
 t47d and mda-mb-468 cell be place in 24 well plate at a density of cell well in complete medium for 24 h .
 control receive medium only .
 after an incubation period of 4 24 h for t47d cell and 4 72 h for mda-mb-468 cell with m vip the medium be remove and keep at c for elisa assay .
 vegf be analyzed use human vegf duoset rd system minneapolis mn usa .
 cyclic amp .
 the ability of vip and forskolin fsk to cause elevation of camp level be determine in human breast cancer cell .
 t47d or mda-mb-468 cell cell in 6 well plate be treat with l of medium contain bovine serum albumin bsa 1 mg ml bacitracin mm pmsf and mm 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine ibmx .
 after min of treatment the medium be remove .
 in order to measure intracellular camp ethanol be add and then transfer to fresh tube and evaporate at dried sample be dissolve in m phosphate buffer and store at c until far assay .
 afterwards camp level be measure by mean of a competitive binding assay .
 statistical analysis .
 data be express as the mean .
 statistical analysis be perform as appropriate use the student 's two tail t test or the bonferroni 's test for multiple comparison after one-way analysis of variance anova .
 p be consider to be significant .
 .
 vip mrna and peptide level .
 oestrogen-responsive t47d or oestrogen-independent mda-mb-468 cancer cell be investigate for the expression of vip at mrna level by both semiquantitative and real-time quantitative rt-pcr and at protein level by immunochemical experiment .
 photomicrograph be show in 1a to illustrate the morphological appearance of the human breast cell line use t47d or mda-mb-468 cell .
 semiquantitative rt-pcr analysis of mrna expression in control sample for vip yield a product of the expect size in both cell line .
 the expression of -actin mrna be use as internal control .
 quantitative real-time rt-pcr show that mrna level for vip in mda-mb-468 cell be significantly low than those in t47d cell .
 the evaluation of the cytosolic extract for mrna translation into the corresponding peptide by mean of eia reveal similar level of immunoreactive vip in the two cell line study .
 full-size image 31k a morphological image of oestrogen-dependent t47d or oestrogen-independent mda-mb-468 breast cancer cell .
 b left expression of vip mrna in t47d lane 1 and mda-mb-468 lane 2 cell as study by semiquantitative rt-pcr .
 all preparation be normalize accord to the expression of mrna for -actin .
 pcr yield product of the expect size of bp for vip and -actin .
 lane m bp molecular dna marker .
 lane n negative control .
 right real-time rt-pcr quantification of vip mrna .
 c expression of vip at the peptide level .
 quantification of vip be perform by eia .
 data in each bar be the mean .
 student 's t test p n 3 .
 view within article .
 expression of vip receptor .
 semiquantitative rt-pcr analysis demonstrate that both t47d and mda-mb-468 breast cancer cell express vpac1-receptor mrna but not vpac2-receptor mrna .
 the lncap human prostate cancer cell line be use as a positive control since it have be show to express mainly vpac1 but also vpac2 receptor .
 the expression of -actin mrna be use as internal control .
 in order to measure vpac1-receptor mrna level quantitative real-time rt-pcr be also perform .
 they be significantly high in oestrogen-independent mda-mb-468 cell as compare to t47d cell .
 full-size image 16k a semiquantitative rt-pcr study of the expression of mrna for vpac1 and vpac2 receptor in t47d lane 1 and mda-mb-468 lane 2 human breast cancer cell .
 lane 3 positive control for both receptor human prostatic lncap cancer cell .
 all preparation be normalize accord to the expression of mrna for -actin .
 pcr yield product of the expect size of 324 519 and bp for vpac1 and vpac2 receptor and -actin respectively .
 lane m bp molecular dna marker .
 lane n negative control .
 b real-time rt-pcr quantification of vpac1-receptor mrna .
 data in each bar be the mean .
 student 's t test p n 3 .
 view within article .
 coupling of vip receptor to the camp system .
 the functionality of vip receptor in breast cancer cell be assess by the ability of vip in the stimulation of camp production .
 the response be dose-dependent and qualitatively similar in both cell line .
 however vip treatment result in maximal camp level in t47d cell that be about 8 time high than those in mda-mb-468 cell .
 forskolin a diterpene that interact with adenylate cyclase in a direct manner also increase camp level by a dose-dependent mechanism .
 in this case both cell line exhibit similar pattern of adenylate cyclase stimulation .
 full-size image 33k adenylate cyclase stimulation in t47d and mda-mb-468 breast cancer cell .
 dose-dependent effect of vip a and forskolin b .
 data be the mean .
 anova bonferroni 's test p p the corresponding control n 6 .
 view within article .
 effect of vip on vegf mrna and protein level .
 t47d and mda-mb-468 cell be stimulate with m vip for 15 min and 4 24 h respectively .
 vegf mrna expression be investigate with specific primer on total rna extract from cell by mean of rt-pcr .
 the -actin transcript be also analyzed as a control .
 amplification of the rt reaction of rna from non-stimulated cell give three product of 391 365 and 231 bp that be sequenced and show to correspond to vegf189 vegf165 and vegf121 respectively .
 rt-pcr analysis reveal the increase expression of vegf mrna in response to m vip in a time-dependent manner .
 vip effect on vegf165 mrna expression be far assess by real-time quantitative rt-pcr .
 both control and vip-stimulated cell be study at increase time period up to 2 h and 24 h in t47d and mda-mb-468 cell 4b show that vegf165 mrna expression reach maximal and similar level after 45 min and 16 h of m vip stimulation in t47d and mda-mb-468 cell respectively .
 full-size image 35k time-dependent effect of m vip on the expression of vegf mrna in t47d oestrogen-dependent or mda-mb-468 oestrogen-independent breast cancer cell .
 a semiquantitative rt-pcr product of the vegf mrna isoform and -actin mrna .
 m bp marker c control n no template .
 the size of the product be as expect and correspond to vegf189 vegf165 and vegf121 .
 b real-time rt-pcr quantification of vegf165 mrna .
 data in each bar be the mean .
 anova bonferroni 's test p control group n 3 .
 view within article .
 in order to investigate whether the vip-increased expression of vegf165 mrna be accompany by an enhancement in vegf165 protein production an elisa be perform in t47d and mda-mb-468 cell .
 vegf165 level be measure in the medium of t47d and mda-mb-468 cell treat with m vip for 4 24 and 4 72 h respectively .
 result indicate that vegf level be maximal at 8 h and 24 h for oestrogen-dependent and oestrogen-independent cell respectively .
 full-size image 19k time-dependent effect of vip on extracellular vegf level for t47d and mda-mb-468 cell .
 the incubation of cell be perform in the absence or presence of m vip .
 at the indicate time culture medium be take for measurement of vegf165 level by elisa .
 data be the mean .
 student 's t test control group n 4 .
 view within article .
 involvement of phosphoinositide 3 kinase pi3k and pka pathway in vip effect on vegf165 production .
 the protein kinase inhibitor wortmannin pi3k and h89 pka be use in order to determine whether pi3k and or pka signal pathway mediate the stimulatory effect of vip on vegf165 synthesis in t47d and mda-mb-468 breast cancer cell .
 both inhibitor be able to decrease vip effect on vegf165 level .
 the involvement of the camp pka pathway be far confirm by the observation of the stimulatory effect of forskolin upon vegf165 secretion in both cell line .
 full-size image 38k involvement of pi3k and pka pathway in vip effect on vegf165 production by both t47d and mda-mb-468 cell .
 cell be cultured with vip in the absence or the presence of pka h89 and pi3-k wortmannin inhibitor .
 culture medium be take at 8 and 24 h respectively and vegf165 level be measure by elisa .
 the effect of forskolin be also evaluate .
 data be the mean .
 anova bonferroni 's test and control p p and p vip n 3 .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 the present study reveal that vip induce vegf expression at both mrna and protein level in human breast oestrogen-dependent t47d and -independent mda-mb-468 cancer cell line .
 this proangiogenic vip action be initiate by peptide interaction with vpac1 receptor lead to the activation of both classical pka and pi3k signal pathway .
 tumour growth and dissemination be dependent on angiogenesis a process that broadly refer to the formation of new capillary blood vessel from preexisting vessel .
 study of the molecular mechanism of angiogenesis have show that it depend on the dynamic balance between various regulatory proangiogenic and antiangiogenic factor .
 among them vegf be the main positive regulator of angiogenesis as show in many tumour include breast cancer .
 vegf expression can serve as a prognostic criterion in breast cancer and recent datum indicate that various direct and indirect antiangiogenic method can be use for the therapy of patient with breast cancer as complementary to standard therapy .
 interestingly vegf act in patient with breast cancer not only by the stimulation of angiogenesis but also as an autocrine paracrine stimulator of cell proliferation as well as an antiapoptotic factor in tumour cell via the induction of bcl-2 expression .
 vegf be overexpressed at both mrna and protein level in many human tumour as well as in immortalize and transform cell line .
 vegf expression be regulate by several factor include hypoxia cytokine hormone and modulator of pkc act via intracellular signal pathway .
 however hormonal regulation of vegf synthesis in breast cancer cell by sex steroid particularly by oestrogen be still a controversial subject .
 although oestrogen induce vegf-mediated angiogenesis in the endometrium there be no evidence for the existence of this mechanism in breast cancer .
 datum allow the inclusion of vip among that complex array of factor that exhibit proangiogenic activity result from the stimulation of vegf expression .
 first of all we demonstrate the expression of vip at both mrna and peptide level in breast cancer cell .
 whereas vip mrna level be high in oestrogen-responsive t47d than in oestrogen-independent mda-mb-468 cell the corresponding peptide level be similar in the two cell line .
 this apparent discrepancy may be explain in term of some degree of vip mrna instability in oestrogen-responsive cell .
 present datum on vip significance in breast cancer cell extend previous observation on vip presence in the human normal mammary gland where it appear to have a role in regulate milk secretion .
 vip may act in the breast cancer cell study by autocrine paracrine mechanism since they express vpac1 receptor as show at the mrna level .
 the low value observe in oestrogen-responsive cell be relate to the previous observation of oestrogen downregulation of vpac1-receptor expression in breast cancer cell line .
 the overexpression of vpac1 receptor in breast cancer tissue and cell line have be well establish .
 the lack of detection of vpac2-receptor mrna expression in the two cell line study agree with the poor or null expression of this vip-receptor subclass in the great majority of frequently occur carcinoma .
 the detect vpac1 receptor be functional as show by ability to stimulate camp production conceivably through activation of gs-coupled adenylate cyclase the much frequent signal pathway for vip .
 the efficiency of couple of vpac1 receptor to the signal transduction machinery must be well in oestrogen-dependent t47d cell since they be highly responsive to vip for camp production .
 semiquantitative rt-pcr analysis of t47d and mda-mb-468 breast cancer cell serve to identify three product of 391 365 and 231 bp that be sequenced and show to correspond to the vegf isoform of 189 165 and 121 amino acid in agreement with previous observation in lung and prostate cancer cell .
 the addition of m vip lead to time-dependent increase of the expression of vegf mrnas .
 quantitative real-time rt-pcr analysis give maximal vegf165 mrna level after 45 min of vip addition in oestrogen-dependent cell whereas 16 h be necessary in oestrogen-independent cell to obtain a similar response .
 a previous study in androgen-dependent prostate cancer lncap cell show a time-dependent vip effect on vegf mrna expression that be compatible with present result in oestrogen-dependent breast cancer t47d cell by use similar experimental condition .
 the differential time-dependent response in breast cancer progression be relate to the observe difference in vip-induced camp production in the two cell line study .
 this be applicable not only to vegf expression at mrna level but also at protein level since vip increase in a time-dependent manner the level of extracellular vegf165 secrete from t47d and mda-mb-468 cell with maximal response at 8 and 24 h respectively .
 thus this datum indicate that the stimulatory effect of vip on vegf165 protein production result from increase vegf gene transcription possibly as a consequence of direct action on the promoter region of vegf gene that exhibit several potential transcription factor binding site .
 multiple regulatory pathway of vegf expression have be report in different tumour include breast cancer .
 the observe vip-induced upregulation of vegf expression in breast cancer cell appear to be initiate at the vpac1 receptor which result in adenylate cyclase stimulation and pka activation .
 it be support by observation that other camp stimulus such as the diterpene forskolin also increase vegf expression whereas the pka inhibitor h89 completely block that vip effect .
 pi3k signal may be also involve since the corresponding kinase inhibitor wortmannin behave as a potent blocking agent upon vip activity .
 previous result show that vip upregulated vegf expression in a pka-dependent manner in lung and prostate cancer cell .
 in addition the involvement of the pi3k and the mitogen-activated protein kinase mek1 2 system have be observe in prostate cancer cell .
 in this context it be interesting to note the propose relevance of the pi3k signal pathway not only in the regulation of vegf expression in breast cancer cell but also in the development of this breast disease .
 in this study we have find that vip stimulate vegf expression in breast cancer cell act through vpac1 receptor and involve at least camp pka and pi3k signal pathway .
 the two cell line choose represent two different stage of the disease since breast cell loose the ability to respond to oestrogen during cancer development and progression .
 t47d cell which be oestrogen-dependent represent an early stage of breast cancer whereas mda-mb-468 cell which be oestrogen-independent reflect an advance stage of the disease .
 present datum on the potential proangiogenic role of vip at this level should be continue by additional study on the ability of vip to induce angiogenesis in breast tumour as well as on the antiangiogenic activity of available vip-receptor antagonist and vip chemotherapeutic conjugate .
 it contribute to a well knowledge of breast cancer progression as well as to the developing of much effective therapeutic approach to this extremely important disease .
 acknowledgement .
 this study be support by a grant from the ministerio de educacin y ciencia .
 be a fellow from the universidad de alcal .
 additionally percutaneous biopsy prevent woman with histologic prove benign disease from unnecessary surgery and accelerate start of treatment in case of breast cancer .
 women with breast cancer diagnose by surgical biopsy undergo usually a second operation for evaluate the axilla or for require complete tumor resection .
 confirmation of histologic diagnosis simplify operative planning and offer the possibility for definite surgical treatment in one step .
 thus the aim of study be the evaluation of the likelihood of one therapeutic surgery in patient with percutaneously prove breast cancer and the different factor correlate with only one operation especially morphology of the lesion quality of imaging diagnostic and preoperative sonographic or stereotactic guide localization .
 material and .
 biopsy .
 in retrospective study mean patient age be 59 year range 38 81 year .
 we evaluate datum of clinical radiological and surgical report of 152 consecutive patient who have a therapeutic operation in case of non-palpable breast cancer at institution from january to december .
 operation be perform follow percutaneously prove non-palpable breast cancer in 121 152 patient .
 sixty-one woman undergo vacuum-assisted large core biopsy under stereotactic guidance and patient be diagnose under sonographic guidance use a 14 g coaxial bard magnum 14 g covington ga usa needle .
 reason for no preoperative biopsy in 31 case be the follow 2 patient undergo fine needle aspiration in 8 case a technical approach be not possible due to the lesion 's position in the breast 3 patient reject percutaneous biopsy 1 have a radial scar as a reason for immediate surgical biopsy and in 17 patient definite clinical and radiological diagnosis bi-rads 5 lead to operation .
 the radiologist choose the method of guidance in aspect of the much reliable imaging visibility .
 all decision and action be supervise and prove by the head of the department is .
 generally stereotactic guidance be use for mass that be not visualize sonographically or for calcify lesion and sonographic guidance for all those detectable by ultra-sound .
 specimen x-ray be perform to confirm the presence of the lesion within the specimen during surgery .
 stereotactic biopsy be perform with woman in prone position on a dedicate table with digital imaging fischer imaging denver co usa .
 tissue be acquire for stereotactic guide biopsy with an 11 gauge vacuum-assisted biopsy probe mammotome ethicon endo-surgery cincinatti oh usa .
 median of specimen acquire be 25 range 15 35 specimen radiography be perform in each case .
 when the lesion be remove completely a localize clip be place .
 the sonographically guide biopsy be perform with woman in supine-oblique position use high-resolution sonographic equipment atl hdi bothell wa usa .
 for acquire tissue a 14 gauge automate core-biopsy system be use .
 median of specimen acquire be 5 range 4 8 .
 preoperative localization technique .
 one hundred and thirty-six of 152 patient attempt breast conservation and undergo preoperative tumor localization on the day of surgery with a localization wire bard dualok covington ga usa .
 localization wire be place in the center of the lesion .
 if there be large lesion cm two or even much localization wire be use to delineate the tumor .
 localization be define exact if the distance from the wire to the tumor be equal or low than 3 mm .
 after stereotactically and sonographically guide localization of visible architecture distortion mammogram be perform .
 at the end of the preoperative tumor localization procedure personal consultation with the surgeon take place in each case .
 sixteen patient have mastectomy without preoperative localization .
 primary surgical treatment .
 all breast and axillary surgery be do by gynecologist 6 specialized in breast surgery .
 the therapeutic procedure concern breast conservation versus mastectomy no need of axillary surgery versus sentinel lymph node biopsy versus axillary dissection be decide by the surgeon in consultation with the radiologist and the patient based on the imaging the pathology report the clinical finding and the patient preference .
 multicentricity of tumor or history of therapeutic radiation therapy of the breast be contraindication for breast conservation .
 axillary dissection be perform in case of invasive carcinoma and clinical and or sonographical suspicion about axillary lymph node sentinel lymph node biopsy in case of clinically sonographically negative axilla finding .
 additional surgical procedure .
 in different situation additional surgery be recommend at institution .
 re-operation be require due to tumor at or close to the margin of resection residual microcalcifications in the biopsy site in case of carcinoma associate with calcification due to multifocality or histologic underestimation in preoperative biopsy .
 the patient undergo reexcision after preoperative needle localization or mastectomy follow a multidisciplinary tumor conference with consensus of surgeon radiologist pathologist and patient on basis of histologic finding imaging datum and patient preference .
 if sentinel lymph node metastases be identify complete axillary dissection be perform as a separate surgical procedure .
 pathology .
 in institution pathologic analysis and correlation with both imaging and definite histologic diagnosis be perform for all preoperative percutaneous biopsy and all surgical specimen .
 we consider histologic underestimation in case of lesion show atypical ductal hyperplasia adh in percutaneous biopsy and ductal carcinoma in situ dcis at surgery or for dcis in percutaneous biopsy and infiltrate carcinoma in the surgical specimen .
 specimen margin be consider positive if the tumor extend to 1 mm in case of invasive carcinoma and 5 mm in case of dcis to the ink margin .
 sentinel lymph node be examine by frozen section immunohistochemistry and paraffin section .
 if the sentinel node be turn out to be tumor-free no far axillary surgery be recommend .
 if sentinel lymph node show metastases in the freeze section patient undergo axillary dissection during the same surgical procedure .
 in case of malignant involvement only in paraffin section or immunohistochemistry re-operation for axillary dissection be necessary .
 data collection .
 medical history be review retrospectively to determine the number of surgical procedure for each patient .
 factor record include primary breast cancer treatment breast conserve operation versus mastectomy axillary surgery sentinel lymph node biopsy versus axillary dissection mammographic and sonographic finding mammographically visible mass or microcalcifications sonographically visible mass and architecture distortion lesion size core biopsy histology histologic underestimation and localization quality of the initial surgical procedure .
 all datum be enter into a computerized table excel microsoft redmond wa for far analysis .
 statistic .
 statistical analysis from all 152 patient be perform use sas cytel software corporation cambridge ma usa .
 for all collect datum significance concern operation versus re-operation be calculate by chi-square-test .
 the mann whitney u-test be use to find out whether tumor size would be a potential predictor for additional surgical procedure .
 significance level be p for both test .
 evaluation of power of influence odds-ratio and confidence interval be calculate .
 .
 lesion type size and surgical procedure .
 one hundred and twenty-eight of 152 patient have solitary unilateral lesion 24 152 have multiple ipsilateral lesion of whom 24 of all have multifocal and 4 24 of all multicentric lesion .
 mammographically visible mass be find in 62 patient microcalcifications in 89 patient .
 sonographically visible mass be detect in 64 patient whereas an architectural distortion be find in 11 patient .
 tumorsize range between and cm mean cm .
 one hundred and thirty-two patient be finally treat with breast conserve therapy patient with mastectomy .
 histology reveal dcis in 57 patient .
 for one operation in 57 patient average tumor size be cm range 5 cm median cm for re-operation average tumor size be cm range cm median cm .
 infiltrating carcinoma be find in 95 patient .
 axillary surgery be perform in 81 patient in 15 81 patient positive lymphnodes be find .
 number of surgical procedure .
 one hundred and twelve patient undergo one operation 39 patient undergo 2 surgical procedure and 1 patient three operation .
 one-step-surgery be perform in 14 16 patient with mastectomy versus 98 136 patient with breast conserve therapy p .
 so there be no significant difference only a tendency to much re-operation require in case of attempt breast conserve therapy .
 among 136 woman who attempt breast conservation the definite treatment be breast conservation in 132 and mastectomy in 4 patient .
 the different reason for re-operation in case be re-operation due to tumor at or close to the margin of resection in 24 case include 7 24 with residual microcalcifications after first surgery find multifocal 5 or multicentric 1 tumor with consecutive mastectomy in 6 case and additional axillary dissection in 8 case because invasive carcinoma be find only in definite histology include 2 patient with positive sentinel lymph node .
 two patient have mastectomy on demand .
 bivariate analysis factor associate with perform one operation .
 according to bivariate analysis of 152 patient one operation be significantly much likely when tumor size be small in mann whitney u-test z table 1 .
 for one operation 112 152 patient average tumor size be cm range cm median cm for re-operation average tumor size be cm range cm median cm .
 table .
 bivariate analysis factor associate with perform one-operation or re-operation with nonpalpable percutaneously prove breast cancer .
 factorfrequency of one operation level of significance p multiple lesion yes13 24 no11 24 mass on mammogram yes55 62 no7 62 mass on sonography yes53 64 no11 64 calcifications on mammogram yes56 89 no33 89 sonographically visible architecture distortion yes6 11 no5 11 histologic underestimation yes89 84 no17 16 stereotactically guide wire localization yes47 72 65 no25 72 35 sonographically guide wire localization yes53 66 no13 66 central localization of the wire yes91 123 74 15 full-size table .
 view within article .
 we find a significant difference in a chi-square-test with p concern tumor stage and number of operation .
 we find much pt1a and in situ carcinoma in woman in the re-operation group than in woman who be treat in one surgical step pt1a versus ptis versus .
 for tumor stage pt1c likelihood of one operation be significantly high versus almost comparable to the likelihood of one operation for pt1b versus table 2 .
 table .
 association of tumor stage and number of surgical procedure .
 tumor stadiumone operationre-operationtotal pt1a7815 pt1b24933 pt1c41647 .
 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 there be no statistical significance in the mann whitney u-test z between tumor size of ptis tumor and operation frequency only a tendency to little operation in case of small in situ tumor .
 average tumor size be cm for patient with one operation versus cm for patient with an additional surgical procedure table 1 .
 in case of multiple lesion likelihood of re-operation be significantly high p only 13 24 patient be treat in the first step versus 11 24 patient far operation necessary table 1 .
 one operation be significantly much likely in woman with a mammographic density p in 55 62 versus 7 62 patient and with sonographically visible mass p in 53 64 versus 11 64 patient table 1 .
 we find significantly high frequency of perform re-operation in case of microcalcifications p .
 in 33 89 versus 56 89 an additional surgical procedure be necessary table 1 .
 there be no significant difference concern sonographically visible architectural distortion and operation frequency only a tendency to much re-operation necessary in case of architectural-distortion in 5 11 versus 6 11 with one definite surgical treatment .
 one operation be significantly much likely when preoperative interventional histologic diagnosis be confirm by therapeutic operation p .
 in 121 patient we obtain a correct percutaneously prove histologic diagnosis .
 in seven case preoperative histologic diagnosis show underestimation the in situ lesion turn out to be invasive cancer in therapeutic operation in two case preoperative histologic diagnosis be atypical ductal hyperplasia versus dcis in surgical specimen four patient have unexpected multifocal tumor in surgical specimen in two patient histologic diagnosis be unclear with percutaneous biopsy .
 eighty-nine of patient with representative preoperative diagnosis be treat with one operation 17 woman undergo re-operation .
 in 123 138 patient the localization wire position be central 3 mm distance to the tumor in 15 138 case the distance to the tumor be maximally mm .
 forty-seven of 72 woman undergo one operation after stereotactically guide wire localization 25 72 patient undergo re-operation .
 fifty-three of 66 patient with sonographically guide wire localization be treat in one surgical step 13 66 undergo a second surgery .
 we find no significant correlation between number of operation and position of localization wire p .
 only a tendency to a high likelihood of one surgical step can be see in 91 123 of case with central localization wire position versus 15 of case with not centrally localized wire table 1 .
 discussion .
 in several different previous study investigator evaluate that woman with percutaneously prove breast cancer have a significantly high likelihood to be treat in one operation than patient with breast cancer diagnose by surgical biopsy .
 in case of diagnostic biopsy non-tumor-free margin far axillary dissection or mastectomy because of extensive tumor often require re-surgery .
 there be a lot of advantage that make one surgical step desirable low operation risk and little patient anxiety well cosmetic result and also increase cost efficiency .
 in study population of the woman be treat definitely in one surgical step .
 of mastectomy and of breast conserve therapy be one-step-surgery .
 in multivariate analysis we find out that likelihood be significantly high perform one operation if woman undergo mastectomy and if preoperative percutaneous biopsy be reliable reveal no histologic underestimation .
 among patient who attempt breast conserve therapy one definite surgical procedure be perform significantly much often in case of mammographically or sonographically visible mass .
 the mass detectable in a mammogram or in an ultrasound may guarantee a much precise assessment of the extent of the tumor 1 .
 in study the likelihood for only one definite surgical step be significantly high in case of small tumor which have be publish in a previous study by gallegos .
 full-size image 37k stereotactically guide wire localization of a mm percutaneously prove breast cancer infiltrate ductal carcinoma associate with dcis in the upper outer quadrant of the right breast .
 view within article .
 the reason for additional surgery be in much case tumor at or close to the margin of resection in 24 38 of woman who require far surgery and 24 152 of all patient in study .
 the number be comparable to the result of who find non-tumor-free resection margin in in patient who undergo re-surgery and in of all woman in study .
 in general it be important to achieve tumor-free margin to reduce the risk of local recurrence .
 several study show that the risk to find non-tumor-free margin of resection be significantly low in woman after preoperative percutaneously prove breast cancer .
 histologically prove malignancy enable the surgeon to resect much tissue .
 study show a significantly high number of necessary re-operation in case of dcis .
 in 1997 demonstrate that it be much difficult to get tumor-free margin in case of dcis than in case of invasive tumor .
 as say above it be obviously possible to assess the tumor margin much accurate in case of a visible mass rather than the lesion be compose of microcalcifications in a mammogram 2 and 3 .
 full-size image 35k sonographically guide wire localization of a multifocal infiltrate carcinoma of 12 mm and 8 mm size in the upper inner quadrant of the right breast .
 both localization wire be place in the center of the lesion arrow the distance between the lesion be 23 mm .
 breast conserve therapy be possible in one-step-surgery .
 view within article .
 full-size image 33k sonographically guide wire localization of a mm percutaneously prove breast cancer infiltrate ductal carcinoma in the upper outer quadrant of the leave breast .
 arrow mark the wire within an irregular hypoechoic solid mass .
 view within article .
 the second much common reason for re-surgery in study be histologic underestimation that we find in of all re-operation .
 121 of the percutaneously prove biopsy turn out to be representative .
 in seven case preoperative percutaneous biopsy yield dcis however surgery reveal infiltrate carcinoma .
 atypical ductal hyperplasia be suspect preoperatively in two case come out as dcis in the surgical specimen .
 further contrary result be find in four case with surgery reveal multifocal tumor and in two case with unclear preoperative histologic diagnosis .
 in literature the rate of underestimation of atypical ductal hyperplasia be 14 and of dcis between and .
 in study histologic underestimation correlate significantly p with a high likelihood of far operation .
 the effect of the position of the localization wire on the surgical outcome be evaluate with a central position 3 mm distance to tumor in of the case and a peripheral position maximum mm in of the case .
 we find no significant correlation between number of operation and position of the localization wire p .
 there be only a tendency to a high likelihood of one surgical step in 91 123 of the case with central localization wire versus 15 with no central localization wire table 1 .
 that result support that even with a much peripheral position of the localization wire the patient can be treat in one surgical step presume a good cooperation between radiologist and surgeon be achieve .
 the of one operation after sonographically or stereotactically guide wire localization be in the range of 64 in previous study report in literature .
 where do we see option to reduce the operation frequency follow percutaneously prove nonpalpable breast cancer especially in case of patient demand for breast conserve therapy preoperative planning of the right surgical procedure for the woman i of high importance .
 if cancer be diagnose in much than one quadrant breast conserve therapy be to avoid .
 histologic underestimation result significantly little use 11 gauge than 14 gauge automate core biopsy in previous study 16 of suspect dcis at 14 gauge automate core biopsy turn out to be an invasive carcinoma after operation and 6 of suspect dcis at 11 gauge vacuumassisted biopsy come out as invasive carcinoma in open surgery .
 to attempt a well surgical result with tumor-free margin after one-step-surgery preoperative ultra-sound or additional magnetic resonance imaging may be perform mri even to avoid unexpected multifocal carcinoma in surgical specimen .
 to achieve complete excision of microcalcifications in patient with percutaneously prove breast cancer much than one localization wire be important to mark the lesion 's margin .
 but especially in case of extend lesion tumor-free margin be not guarantee .
 furthermore the selection of patient for sentinel lymph node biopsy have to be precise and careful and should only be reserve for patient without suspect palpable lymph node and without suspicious finding on axillary ultra-sound .
 reduced frequency of second step axillary dissection may be provide by intraoperative histologic analysis of sentinel lymph node .
 one in nine woman suffer from breast cancer during life time and many woman will be diagnose in stage of nonpalpable lesion identify in screening program .
 percutaneous sonographically guide automate core biopsy or stereotactically guide vacuumbiopsies in addition to exact preoperative wire localization of the tumor offer the chance for one definite surgical procedure .
 in study mammographically or sonographically visible mass small size of tumor preoperative percutaneous biopsy and exact preoperative localization be find to be important factor associate with a single step procedure for definite surgical treatment that we find in of the patient .
 we see the future goal in far improvement of preoperative imaging technique to define tumor margin much exactly much extensive use of preoperative percutaneous diagnostic and development of much powerful and reliable percutaneous biopsy device to reduce the rate of histologic underestimation .
 this protein actively efflux anti-cancer drug out of the target cell and thus limit therapeutic efficacy .
 several compound have be evaluate as inhibitor of abc transporter in recent it be anticipate that co-administration of this inhibitor and anti-cancer drug will improve the oral bioavailability and tumor-targeting of the anti-cancer agent .
 recently a proof-of-concept study show that the co-administration of an anti-cancer drug topotecan with elacridar an inhibitor of pgp and bcrp significantly increase the bioavailability of topotecan and reduce inter-patient recent transport inhibitor like elacridar and biricodar inhibit multiple abc transporter .
 since much cell express a host of transporter and not just a specific member dual or broad spectrum inhibitor may offer advantage not find in compound that target a single transport protein .
 on the other hand broad spectrum inhibitor may give rise to much side hence the relative merit of specific versus multiple inhibitor be still widely .
 flavonoids and derivative have receive considerable attention as abc transporter the flavonol quercetin potentiated the action of doxorubicin on a multidrug resistant cell line8 and this lead to the proposal that it might be an inhibitor of growing interest in the potential of flavonoid as pgp inhibitor lead to the synthesis of flavonoid derivative with n-benzylpiperazine side and c-isoprenyl as well as investigation on flavonoid subfamilies like aurones and much recently several flavonoid be find to be inhibitor of the breast cancer resistance protein a comparison of the structural requirement for flavonoid bcrp interaction show that they be similar but not identical to those establish for flavonoid pgp boumendjel and co-worker propose that active flavonoid have a strong affinity for the nucleoside binding domain of pgp because chromenone ring bear some similarity to the adenine moiety of atp .
 7 but effort to enhance the resemblance to adenine by replace the intracyclic oxygen of the chromenone ring with nitrogen result in compound with diminish it may be that the nitrogen atom in the result compound be not extensively protonated at physiological ph .
 the importance of a cationic centre like a protonated tertiary amino function have be emphasize in several structure activity relationship sar in this investigation several chalcone with basic functionality be evaluate as inhibitor of pgp and bcrp .
 chalcone be bioprecursors of flavonoid and have be associate with pgp inhibitory one chalcone be report to inhibit bcrp as well .
 19 lipophilicity of chalcone be commonly cite as an important parameter for pgp inhibitory in comparison little be know of the inhibitory potential of chalcone with cationic functionality in spite of the acknowledge importance of this motif for activity .
 the structural requirement for bcrp inhibitory activity have receive even little attention .
 thus objective be to assess how cationic functionality in the chalcone template will affect the ability of this compound to inhibit pgp and bcrp and to show if different structural requirement be require for the inhibition of this functionally relate protein .
 to achieve this objective a library of chalcone with basic functionality be evaluate for the inhibition of pgp by the in vitro calcein-am assay carry out on mardin darby canine kidney mdck cell that be transfected with human mdr1 cdna .
 compound find to have promising inhibitory activity be far evaluate for ability to increase doxorubicin accumulation in a human breast cancer cell line mcf-7 select for over-expression of the pgp protein .
 finally the same compound be test for bcrp inhibition by the mitoxantrone accumulation assay carry out on mcf-7 cell select for over-expression of bcrp .
 .
 chalcone test for inhibitory activity .
 the synthesis of the library of chalcone have be describe in an early briefly synthesis be achieve by the base-catalyzed claisen schmidt condensation of appropriately substitute benzaldehydes and acetophenones .
 compound be characterize and purify to purity confirm by hplc analysis for biological testing .
 the structure of the library member be give in table except for compound 13 the other compound be arrange in group 1 7 and based on the substitution pattern on ring compound 13 and member in group 5 have no basic functionality on ring a unlike the compound in the other group .
 for some compound ring b be substitute with a basic group 4-methylpiperazin-1-yl or be replace by the basic pyridine ring .
 chalcone with basic group on either one ring a or b monobasic chalcone or both ring dibasic chalcone be represent in this library .
 table .
 structure of chalcone investigate for inhibition of pgp and bcrp efflux activity .
 compoundaring abr1 1 14 pyridinylc 1 1213 pyridinylc 1 1222 pyridinylc 1 1234-mpd 2 124group 24-mpd 3 och3 2 3 3 4 44-cl 4 4 och3 2 5 14group 54-cl 5 184-cf3 5 och3 2 5 1134-mpd 6 62-cl 6 131h 6 1324-cl 6 1334 pyridinylc 6 1344-mpd 7 72-cl 7 142h 7 1434-mpd 132 och3 3 phenyl2 4- och3 2 full-size table .
 a syntheses of compound be describe in .
 b group have the follow substituents on ring a full-size image 26k c pyridine be substitute in place of ring .
 d 4-mp 4- 4-methylpiperazin-1-yl .
 view within article .
 effect on calcein-am uptake in mdckii mdr1 cell .
 calcein acetoxymethyl ester calcein-am be a substrate of pgp .
 it be non-fluorescent extremely lipid soluble and gain rapid entry into cell .
 once in the cell calcein-am be hydrolyzed by endogenous esterases to give the hydrophilic and intensely fluorescent calcein which be not a substrate of pgp and be thus retain in the cytosol .
 cell express high level of pgp rapidly extrude non-fluorescent calcein-am from the plasma membrane lead to reduce accumulation of fluorescent calcein in the on the other hand cell that do not over-express pgp accumulate high level of fluorescent calcein .
 in this way the ability of a compound to inhibit pgp activity can be assess by measure the increase in intracellular calcein fluorescence when incubate with a pgp over-expressing cell line as compare to the parental non-over-expressing cell line .
 the two cell line use in this assay be the parental mdckii wt and transfected clone mdckii mdr1 which express high level of pgp .
 the expression of pgp in this cell line we determine by western blot .
 constitutive level of pgp be detect in the parental cell line but a strong band be observe in the mdckii mdr1 cell for the same protein load .
 thus mdckii mdr1 cell have high level of pgp and would accumulate little calcein-am than the parental cell .
 full-size image 5k figure western blot analysis of pgp expression in mdckii wt and mdckii mdr1 cell .
 the protein loading for each sample be g as determine by protein assay .
 actin be use as positive control .
 view within article .
 figure 2 show the output from a representative assay in which calcein-am accumulation be concurrently monitor in mdckii wt cell and mdckii mdr1 cell over a period of min .
 linear increase in fluorescence be note over this time period .
 a fast rate of increase be observe for the parental mdckii wt cell average of fluorescent unit min from all run as compare to the transfected mdckii mdr1 cell average of fluorescent unit min from all run which be in keep with the over-expression of pgp in the transfected cell .
 two know pgp inhibitor verapamil and cyclosporin a be use as positive control for both cell line .
 both inhibitor increase calcein-am accumulation in the two cell line but in general great increase be observe in the transfected cell line compare to the parental cell line .
 this control determination be routinely carry out in each 96 well plate along with the test compound which for screening purpose be test at a fix concentration of the effect of the test compound on the transfected cell line be monitor over min and two parameter be determine from the plot i accumulation of calcein-am after min use eq .
 1 and ii the rate of uptake over the min time interval .
 result be give in table this two parameter be find to be significantly correlated to each other pearson correlation coefficient r p n 25 .
 1 only three compound 6 6 131 6 132 be find to increase calcein-am accumulation to a significantly great degree than verapamil .
 two of this compound 6 and 6 131 be far investigate for concentration dependent effect on the accumulation process and ability to increase doxorubicin dox level in human breast cancer cell mcf-7 select for over-expression of pgp .
 they be also test for inhibition of bcrp as describe in the follow section .
 compound 6 132 be not include in spite of good activity because it be structurally similar to the other two compound .
 instead we include 3 which be comparable to verapamil in term of ability to accumulate calcein-am as one of the compound for far investigation .
 ring a of 3 have a basic ring only and no methoxy group .
 thus it be different from the other compound and it would be of interest to see if this difference affect activity .
 full-size image 24k figure calcein-am accumulation in mdckii wt and mdckii mdr1 cell over min with or without the presence of cyclosporin a csa and verapamil ver .
 view within article .
 table .
 effect of test compound on calcein-am accumulation in mdckii mdr1 cell and clogp value .
 calcein accumulationarate of calcein-am uptakebclogpc 1 1 1 1 2 3 13 3 3 4 4 4 25 5 8 5 4 5 19172 5 113159 16 6 25 6 131256 14 6 132247 23 6 133151 6 6 7 45 7 142176 31 7 2 32 13174 23 verapamil188 18 cyclosporin a437 57 .
 full-size table .
 a compound be test at calcein-am accumulation fmdck mdr1 test compound mdr1 where f be fluorescence of calcein at minute .
 value be mean of 2 or much separate determination .
 sd in bracket for n 3 determination .
 b rate of uptake be assess from the plot of calcein fluorescence versus time .
 value be mean sd with sd give for 3 determination .
 c clogp be determine from sybyl tripos louis mo .
 d significantly different from verapamil anova 1 way post-hoc tukey origin originlab ma .
 e no significant difference in uptake in calcein-am among the indicate compound 4 5 19 7 142 13 anova 1 way post-hoc tukey origin originlab ma .
 view within article .
 concentration dependent effect of select compound on calcein-am accumulation .
 figure 3 show the effect of different concentration of promising compound 3 6 and 6 131 on the accumulation of calcein-am .
 the latter be express use eq .
 2 which measure the extent to which the test compound increase calcein-am uptake in the transfected cell line compare to the maximum increase in uptake that can be expect from the assay system .
 2 the denominator fmdckii wt without drug fmdckii mdr1 without drug be determine on the parental and transfected cell line and represent the maximum difference in calcein fluorescence f under the prevail experimental condition .
 the numerator represent the increase in calcein fluorescence in mdckii mdr1 cell due to the inhibitory effect of the test compound .
 measurement be make at the minute .
 full-size image 22k figure increase in calcein-am accumulation in mdckii mdr1 cell at the minute in the presence of test compound .
 view within article .
 figure 3 show fairly linear increase in fluorescence with increase concentration of compound 3 6 and 6 131 .
 the sustain rise in fluorescence associate with compound 6 at m suggest that it be much potent than 6 131 and 3 .
 two little active compound 4 7 142 be include for comparison and they show gradual increase with concentration .
 effect of compound 3 6 and 6 131 on the accumulation of doxorubicin in mcf-7 cell that over-expressed pgp mcf-7 adr the cell line mcf-7 adr be select for over-expression of pgp by continuous exposure to doxorubicin .
 western blot analysis confirm the presence of pgp but not bcrp in this cell line .
 the parental cell line have no detectable level of pgp and bcrp .
 this result serve to confirm the appropriateness of this cell line as model to assess the effect of the compound on the pgp transporter .
 full-size image 7k figure western blot analysis of pgp and bcrp expression in mcf-7 wt mcf-7 adr and mcf-7 mx cell .
 the protein loading for each sample be g as determine by protein assay .
 actin be use as positive control .
 view within article .
 in section the compound be test at m for effect on calcein-am uptake in mdckii mdr1 cell .
 since a different cell line mcf-7 adr and reporter molecule dox instead of calcein-am be use in this section a different concentration may be require .
 hence we determine the anti-proliferative value of the test compound and doxorubicin to arrive at the concentration to be use .
 dox be a substrate of pgp and on the mcf-7 adr cell be approximately fold high p than on the parental cell line .
 on the other hand the value of the test compound on the two cell line do not differ significantly imply that they be not likely to be substrate of pgp .
 based on the determination a low concentration of 1 m be use in the subsequent experiment .
 full-size image 42k figure a of test compound on mcf-7 adr and mcf-7 b uptake of doxorubicin in mcf-7 adr and mcf-7 wt cell in presence of test compound at 1 m 3 6 6 131 verapamil ver cyclosporin a csa .
 ctr control cell expose to dox in absence of test a significant difference p between of dox in mcf-7 wt and mcf-7 adr cell one-way anova follow by tukey .
 of test compound on the two cell line be not find to differ b significant difference in uptake of dox in mcf-7 adr cell treat with test compound as compare to untreated control ctr mcf-7 adr cell one-way anova follow by tukey .
 bar represent mean sd for 3 determination .
 view within article .
 the uptake of dox into cell be readily monitor by measure intrinsic fluorescence in the intracellular compartment .
 use a calibration curve the level of fluorescence be correlated to the amount of dox take up into the cell .
 as show in figure 5b about five time much doxorubicin be accumulate in the parental mcf-7 wt cell than in mcf-7 adr cell .
 when the cell be pre-incubated with cyclosporin a or verapamil 1 m for 1 h and then expose to dox for another hour uptake of dox increase significantly in the mcf-7 adr cell and be almost comparable to level in the parental cell .
 similar observation be make for cell pre-incubated with test compound 3 6 and 6 131 test at 1 this result far confirm the pgp inhibitory property of the chalcone .
 effect of compound 3 6 and 6 131 on the accumulation of mitoxantrone mx in mitoxantrone resistant mcf-7 cell mcf-7 mx mcf-7 mx cell be select for over-expression of bcrp by continuous exposure to mitoxantrone .
 western blot analysis confirm the bcrp express status of mcf-7 mx .
 no detectable level of pgp be observe in this cell line .
 as state early neither pgp nor bcrp be detect in the parental cell line .
 mitoxantrone mx be a substrate of bcrp .
 cellular accumulation be determine by a semi-quantitative method involve flow cytometry use a fluorescence-activated cell sorter .
 in a typical experiment the follow be monitor i autofluorescence of the mcf-7 wt cell curve d ii mx fluorescence in mcf-7 or mcf-7 mx cell expose to mx curve a and b respectively iii mx fluorescence in mcf-7 mx cell in the presence of the bcrp inhibitor fumitremogin ftc which be use as a positive control curve c and iv similar to iii but in the presence of test compound not depict .
 full-size image 24k figure flow cytometry analysis of mx in mcf-7 wt and mcf-7 mx cell a mcf-7 wt mx b mcf-7 mx mx c mcf-7 mx mx ftc m d mcf-7 wt .
 r2 be the vertical marker and area to the right of it be define as the area of define region .
 view within article .
 as show in figure 6 a vertical marker be arbitrarily set on the autofluorescence curve of mcf-7 wt cell curve d in the facs plot .
 the marker be adjust so that the area to the right of it be .
 this area be referred to as the area of define region .
 the parental cell mcf-7 wt accumulate much mx than mcf7 mx cell result in a stronger fluorescent signal and thus a large area of define region .
 this be show for curve a and ftc cause much mx accumulation in mcf-7 mx cell curve c and this cause a right hand shift in the position of the fluorescent peak compare to curve .
 table 3 list the area of the define region for the accumulation of mx by mcf-7 mx cell in the presence of compound 3 6 6 131 and 5 the datum be analyzed for significant difference from the control untreated mcf-7 mx cell by 1 way anova follow by post-hoc tukey .
 no statistical difference be observe for compound 6 and 6 131 .
 a marginally great uptake be detect for 3 compare to the control p .
 only the non-basic chalcone 5 14 and ftc cause significant increase in mx accumulation compare to control untreated cell p .
 the chalcone 5 14 increase accumulation to of the control as compare to for ftc .
 table .
 accumulation of mitoxantrone mx in mcf-7 mx cell in the presence of test compound .
 cell line test compoundaarea of define region accumulation of mitoxantronec mcf-7 wt no mx mcf-7 wt mcf-7 mx mcf-7 mx mx 3 mcf-7 mx mx 6 mcf-7 mx mx 6 mcf-7 mx mx 5 mcf-7 mx mx .
 full-size table .
 a concentration use be mx 3 m test compound 5 m ftc .
 b the area of define region be that part of the curve on the right of the vertical marker on the autofluorescence curve of mcf-7 wt cell no mx .
 value be mean sd for n 4 except for ftc n 2 .
 c give by eq .
 3 .
 d mx uptake in presence of test compound be significantly different from uptake in untreated mcf-7 mx cell p when test by anova 1 way post-hoc tukey origin originlab ma .
 view within article .
 .
 pgp inhibitory property of the chalcone library .
 of the chalcone investigate for enhance calcein-am accumulation only three compound 6 6 131 6 132 significantly increase calcein-am uptake to a great degree than the know inhibitor verapamil .
 this compound belong to group 6 in which ring a be substitute with two methoxy group and a 1-ethylpiperidin-4-yl ring .
 since there be also little active compound 6 133 6 134 in group 6 the presence of this ring a motif per se do not ensure good inhibitory activity .
 both 6 133 and 6 134 have basic substituents 4-methylpiperazin-1-yl or pyridine in place of phenyl on ring a check on other compound in table 2 show that have basic group on ring b consistently lead to poor activity irrespective of the substitution on ring on the other hand the role of the basic functionality on ring a be little clear-cut .
 the present finding show that it be a necessary but not sufficient feature for pgp inhibitory activity .
 for example there be much active compound in group 6 and 7 than group 3 and 4 although they be all basic chalcone .
 in addition non-basic chalcone like compound 5 19 and 13 have uptake level that be not significantly different from basic chalcone like 4 and 7 142 .
 to have a well understanding of the difference exhibit in the library we consider the lipophilicity of this compound since this property have be widely cite as an important requirement for pgp inhibitory the clog p value of the compound be determine in silico and the correlation between clogp and rate of uptake be assess .
 we find no significant correlation pearson correlation r p n 25 but note that compound with basic group on both ring be among the least lipophilic in respective group which may account in part for poor pgp inhibitory activity .
 we also consider a proposal by seelig28 that pgp inhibitor be characterize by electron donor hydrogen bond acceptor group that be separate by defined distance namely nm type i or nm type ii .
 in addition compound with a large number of this type i and ii recognition pattern be generally associate with greater inhibitory potency .
 the compound be examine for the presence of this recognition pattern and two type ii recognition pattern in ring a of group 1 2 6 and 7 be find .
 this involve the dimethoxy group nm between the oxygen atom and the carbonyl oxygen and 2 methoxy oxygen nm .
 the nitrogen atom in the piperidine or piperazine ring be not electron donor because they be protonated at ph or electron be delocalized into the adjoin aromatic ring no type i or ii recognition pattern be find in group 3 and 4 except for compound 3 and 4 which have dimethoxy group on ring coincidentally or otherwise both compound have the fast rate of calcein-am uptake in respective group .
 compound 13 and 5 19 also illustrate the importance of the type ii recognition pattern .
 both compound have three type ii distance because they have methoxy group on both ring a and yet again they cause the great degree of calcein-am accumulation among the non-basic chalcone .
 a qualitative picture of the structural requirement for pgp inhibitory activity among the basic chalcone may be summarize as follow .
 first there be a clear indication that basic group should be present on only one ring of the chalcone template and this be preferably ring basic group on both ring adversely affect activity possibly because the result compound have low lipophilicity .
 second the meta-dimethoxy motif on either ring a or b be an important feature for activity because they be electron donor and comply with the type ii spatial distance for pgp inhibitor propose by seelig .
 28 when this motif be present on ring a the distance between the oxygen atom of the carbonyl moiety and the 2 methoxy group also fall within the require type ii spatial distance .
 for non-basic chalcone have two such feature be not sufficient to ensure good inhibitory activity as see from the poor activity of the group 5 compound 5 14 5 18 but those with three type ii feature like compound 5 19 and 13 be comparable in activity to verapamil .
 in contrast basic chalcone require only one or two type ii feature for good calcein-am accumulation as evident from compound 6 6 131 and 6 132 significantly well than verapamil and compound 3 comparable to verapamil .
 however at this stage it be not clear why type ii requirement should differ for basic and non-basic chalcone .
 bcrp inhibitory property of the chalcone library .
 only four compound be test for bcrp inhibitory activity on the mx accumulation assay .
 this compound be 3 6 6 131 which have good pgp inhibitory profile and a non-basic chalcone 5 14 which have poor pgp inhibitory activity .
 the result show that in contrast to mark effect on pgp efflux activity compound 3 6 and 6 131 do not increase mx accumulation in the bcrp over-expressing cell line .
 rather it be compound 5 14 which significantly increase mx accumulation .
 there be keen interest in develop bcrp inhibitor because not many compound be know to inhibit this moreover inhibitor of bcrp and the other abc transporter protein seem to have different structural this be also observe in this study based on the contrast activity of the basic chalcone 6 6 131 and the non-basic chalcone 5 however much example be require for far confirmation .
 notwithstanding this observation compound 3 may offer some potential as a dual inhibitor of pgp and bcrp .
 it be comparable to verapamil in increase calcein-am uptake and nearly as efficient as ftc in increase mx accumulation .
 in order to develop a molecule of pharmaceutical interest it be desirable that the candidate compound should not present significant cytotoxicity .
 compound 3 have value of and m against mcf-7 and hct116 and be able to increase dox accumulation in mcf-7 adr cell at a low concentration of 1 in comparison compound 6 and 6 131 be associate with great cytotoxicity m .
 conclusion .
 in conclusion we have identify several basic chalcone that exhibit promising reverse effect on the transport property of pgp .
 sar show that the basic group be a necessary but not sufficient feature for inhibitory activity .
 the presence of the meta-dimethoxy motif on the chalcone framework be also require presumably because it introduce electron donor atom with optimal spatial distance postulate to be important for activity .
 the main difference between basic and non-basic chalcone be that when a basic group be present fewer of this electron donor group be require and great inhibition of pgp efflux activity be note .
 one advantage associate with fewer electron donor group may be improve permeability and oral bioavailability as state in lipinski 's rule of according to this mnemonic compound with much than hydrogen bond acceptor equivalent to electron donor group be likely to have poor oral absorption .
 we also find that chalcone that be good pgp inhibitor be generally poor bcrp inhibitor .
 the converse may be true but much compound be need to confirm this trend .
 in spite of this contrast structural requirement one compound 3 inhibit both transport protein suggest that with careful structural manipulation dual inhibitor of pgp and bcrp may be develop from the chalcone template .
 .
 chalcone library .
 the synthesis of the chalcone have be report in the compound be characterize by 1h nmr and 13c nmr and purify to as confirm by hplc analysis by column chromatography and crystallization .
 detail be provide in the cite material .
 calcein acetoxymethyl ester calcein-am doxorubicin mitoxantrone verapamil cyclosporin a 3- bromide mtt and fumitremorgin c ftc be purchase from sigma aldrich chemical co singapore .
 mouse monoclonal antibody for western blot analysis of pgp and bcrp be from signet laboratory inc dedham ma .
 other reagent be of analytical grade .
 cell line .
 parental mardin darby canine kidney cell mdckii wt and mdckii mdr1 cell transfected with human mdr1 cdna be generous gift from dr anton bern of the netherlands cancer institute antoni van leeuwenhoek hospital amsterdam netherlands .
 mdckii mdr1 and mdckii wt cell be grow in dmem contain fetal bovine serum fbs and g l penicillin g streptomycin sulfate .
 cell be subcultured when they reach confluency and be use at passage 8 17 for the calcein-am assay .
 human breast cancer mcf-7 cell be purchase from american type cell culture manassas va usa while the drug select doxorubicin adriamycin resistant mcf-7 adr and mitoxantrone resistant mcf-7 mx cell line be obtain from rachel ee department of pharmacy national university of singapore .
 the cell be cultured in rpmi medium supplement with fbs and g l penicillin g streptomycin sulfate .
 the medium for mcf-7 adr and mcf7 mx cell contain m doxorubicin and nm mitoxantrone respectively .
 western blot analysis be use to determine pgp level in mdckii wt mdckii mdr1 mcf-7 mcf-7 adr and mcf-7 mx cell .
 bcrp level be similarly determine in parental and drug select mcf-7 cell .
 western blot analysis .
 western blot analysis of pgp be carry out on mdckii wt mdckii mdr1 mcf-7 mcf-7 adr and mcf-7 mx cell .
 bcrp level be similarly determine in parental and drug select mcf-7 cell .
 each cell line be grow to confluence trypsinized transfer to eppendorf tube and rinse with ice-cold pbs .
 the content of each tube be suspend in l lysis buffer phosphatasetm extraction buffer novagen in the presence of protease inhibitor 15 l protease inhibitor cocktail roche .
 the cell suspension be incubate for min 4 c and centrifuged min k rpm to give a clear supernatant .
 aliquots be prepare from the different cell line in this way .
 protein content of each aliquot be determine by a commercial reagent dye reagent concentrate bio-rad .
 for western blot analysis the protein extract be dilute with laemmli buffer 4 and analyzed by sds gel electrophoresis on appropriate polyacrylamide gel with or g of protein load on each lane .
 the protein on the gel be then transfer to polyvinylidene diflouride pvdf membrane bio-rad by a semi-dry transfer method .
 after block with tris buffer saline contain low-fat milk and tween the membrane be probe with primary antibody against pgp signet c219 mouse monoclonal antibody cat no abcb1 and bcrp signet mouse monoclonal antibody cat no clone bxp-21 abcg2 .
 the antibody be purchase from signet laboratory inc dedham ma and be use at a dilution of .
 the membrane blot be then react 1 h with secondary antibody horseradish peroxidase anti-mouse igg or horseradish peroxidase anti-rabbit igg wash extensively with tris buffer saline tween and submerge 5 min in a mixture of horse radish peroxidase substrate luminol supersignal west pico pierce il .
 membranes be lightly hand-blotted to dry expose for vary period s to 5 min to an autoradiography film and develop to visualize the antibody antigen complex .
 determination of growth inhibitory value by the microculture tetrazolium assay .
 a previously describe method be briefly mcf-7 wt and mcf-7 adr cell be incubate with the test compound for 72 h after which the medium be decant replace with mtt solution and incubate for another 3 h .
 the cell be wash with phosphate-buffered saline pbs and dmso be add to lyze the cell and to dissolve the purple formazan crystal .
 absorbance be read at nm on a microplate reader with 3 determination make for each concentration of test compound .
 value be determine with prism graph pad san diego usa .
 uptake of calcein-am in mdckii mdr1 cell .
 a previously describe method be follow with some briefly mdckii mdr1 and mdckii wt cell at confluency be trypsinized seed in 96 well plate at a cell density of cell well and incubate at 37 c 24 h co2 atmosphere .
 the cell monolayer in each well be carefully wash with pbs follow by incubation with test compound m prepare in dmso hank 's buffered saline solution for min 37 c co2 atmosphere .
 after min incubation an aliquot of calcein-am in dmso hbss be add to each well to give a final concentration of 2 the maximum concentration of dmso per well be v v .
 after incubation min the fluorescence of each well be measure at min interval for min on a microplate reader with excitation of 485 nm emission of 535 nm .
 concurrent determination be make with positive control verapamil and cyclosporin a at the accumulation of calcein-am be calculate at the minute use .
 the rate of calcein-am accumulation in the presence of test compound be also determine from the gradient of the linear increase in calcein fluorescence with time microsoft office excel .
 doxorubicin accumulation in mcf-7 adr cell .
 a previously describe method be briefly mcf-7 adr passage 5 15 and mcf-7 wt passage be grow in 75 cm2 flask to confluency .
 cell be trypsinized resuspended in rpmi at a cell density of cell ml seed into 6 well plate and incubate for 12 h 37 c co2 for attachment as a monolayer .
 the test compound be add 1 m in 2 ml of v v dmso in fbs-free rpmi incubation to the well incubate for 1 h 37 c follow by dox m in l of distil water and incubate for another hour .
 uptake be stop by wash each well with ice-cold pbs 3 ml thrice and solubilizing the cell with v v triton and v v sds in pbs .
 after incubation min an aliquot l from each well be transfer into a 96 well plate and the intracellular level of dox be determine by analyzing the cell lysate on a fluorescence plate reader at wavelength excitation 485 nm and emission 535 nm .
 to obtain the dox standard curve cell lysate be prepare as describe above in the absence of test compound .
 the lysate be transfer to 96 well plate to which be add aliquot of freshly prepare doxorubicin in distil water to give final concentration range from g ml to g ml .
 the fluorescence intensity of the solution be determine as before .
 calibration curve be construct with fluorescence intensity y-axis and dox concentration express as g doxorubicin cell x-axis .
 good linearity r2 be obtain and the plot be use to determine the intracellular level of dox .
 mitoxantrone accumulation in mcf-7 mx cell .
 the method describe by zhang et be follow .
 the accumulation of mitoxantrone mx be investigate on mcf-7 wt and mcf-7 mx cell by flow cytometry .
 briefly cell be grow in 75 cm2 flask to about confluence trypsinized wash twice with ice-cold pbs and resuspended in serum-free rpmi medium at a cell density of cell ml .
 the accumulation of mx be investigate by incubate 1 ml of cell with the test compound or the vehicle v v dmso in rpmi in a falcon tube for 37 c 15 min follow by addition of mx .
 the final concentration of test compound and mx be 5 and 3 m respectively .
 after incubation for min uptake be stop by add 5 ml of ice-cold pbs and centrifugation at rpm 5 min 4 the cell be wash twice with ice-cold pbs and the intracellular concentration of mx be determine use a facscan flow cytometer coulter epics elite esp equip with a solid state argon laser for excitation at 488 nm and a bandpass filter at nm to detect mx fluorescence .
 data be process with summit version software .
 the accumulation of mx be express by eq .
 3 footnote to table 3 .
 3 molecular modeling .
 chem 3d pro cambridgesoft ma and sybyl tripos louis mo be use to determine intramolecular distance and clogp of the test compound respectively .
 measurement be make from geometry optimized conformation of the compound use the standard force field of the software .
 statistical analysis .
 data be analyzed for significant difference use one-way anova follow by post-hoc tukey 's test origin originlab ma .
 acknowledgment .
 this work be make possible by funding r to gml and a research scholarship to lxl by the national university of singapore .
 reference and note .
 1 breedveld beijnen and .
 schellens trends pharmacol .
 sci .
 27 article pdf 154 k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 37 2 gottesman fojo and bates nat .
 rev .
 cancer 2 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 752 3 robert and jarry med .
 chem .
 46 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 82 4 ahmed-belkacem pozza macalou perez-victoria boumendjel and di pietro anti-cancer drug 17 239 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 9 5 .
 kruijtzer beijnen rosing ten bokkel huinink schot jewell paul and .
 schellens clin .
 oncol .
 2943 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 142 6 szakacs paterson ludwig booth-genthe and gottesman nat .
 rev .
 drug discov .
 5 219 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 128 7 boumendjel di pietro dumontet and barron med .
 res .
 rev .
 22 512 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 39 8 scambia ranelletti panici devincenzo bonanno ferrandina piantelli bussa rumi cianfriglia and mancuso cancer chemother .
 pharmacol .
 34 1994 459 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 127 9 shapiro and ling biochem .
 pharmacol .
 53 1997 587 .
 article pdf k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 95 ferte kuhnel chapuls rolland lewin and schwaller med .
 chem .
 42 1999 478 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 54 11 comte daskiewicz bayet conseil viornery-vanier dumontet di pietro and barron med .
 chem .
 44 763 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 53 12 boumendjel beney deka mariotte lawson trompier baubichon-cortay and di pietro chem .
 pharm .
 bull .
 854 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 9 13 vaclavikova boumendjel ehrlichova kovar and gut bioorg .
 med .
 chem .
 14 4519 .
 article pdf 166 k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 2 14 hadjeri barbier ronot mariotte boumendjel and boutonnat med .
 chem .
 46 2125 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 25 15 bois beney boumendjel mariotte conseil and di pietro med .
 chem .
 41 1998 4161 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 36 16 bois boumendjel mariotte conseil and di pietro bioorg .
 med .
 chem .
 7 1999 2691 .
 article pdf 125 k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 26 17 ahmed-belkacem pozza munoz-martinez bates castanys gamarro di pietro and perez-victoria cancer res .
 65 4852 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 34 18 imai tsukahara asada and sugimoto cancer res .
 64 4346 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 58 19 zhang yang coburn and morris biochem .
 pharmacol .
 627 .
 article pdf 322 k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 21 zamora pearce and beck mol .
 pharmacol .
 33 1988 454 .
 view record in scopus cited by in scopus 224 21 seelig and landwojtowicz eur .
 med .
 chem .
 12 article pdf 348 k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 22 liu and go bioorg .
 med .
 chem .
 14 153 .
 article pdf 359 k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 5 23 liu and go bioorg .
 med .
 chem .
 15 .
 article pdf 286 k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 1 24 liu wilairat and go med .
 chem .
 44 4443 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 73 25 homolya hollo germann pastan gottesman and sarkadi biol .
 chem .
 268 1993 21493 .
 view record in scopus cited by in scopus 272 26 shiraki okamura tokunaga ohumura yasuda kawaguchi hamada and nakano jpn .
 cancer res .
 93 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 4 27 fu zhang liang yang and pan eur .
 cancer 38 418 .
 article pdf 223 k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 38 28 seelig eur .
 biochem .
 251 1998 252 .
 view record in scopus cited by in scopus 242 29 bates robey miyake rao ross and litman bioenerg .
 biomembr .
 33 .
 full text via crossref view record in scopus cited by in scopus 68 lipinski pharmacol .
 toxicol .
 method 44 235 .
 article pdf k view record in scopus cited by in scopus 374 corresponding author .
 65162654 fax 67791554 .
 bioorganic medicinal chemistry .
 volume 16 issue 1 1 january .
 nucleic acid modification for fluroescence-based technologiesresult list previous 936 of next .
 home .
 browse .
 search .
 select .
 setting .
 alerts .
 help .
 about sciencedirect contact u terms conditions privacy policycopyright elsevier all right reserve .
 be a register trademark of elsevier .
 var hidediv collabboxcontent t .
 the positron labeled steroidal estrogen 16- 18f fluoro-17-estradiol a 17 estradiol derivative and a well-known er radioligand as indicate in 1 have be develop as a pet breast cancer er imaging agent .
 a number of selective estrogen receptor modulator serm such as tamoxifen and 4 hydroxytamoxifen be currently in advance clinical trial or in the market for the treatment of hormone-dependent breast cancer .
 recently a series of tetrahydroisoquinoline derivative have be develop as new and potent serm and they be find to bind with high affinity to the two currently know er er and er and specificity exhibit up to fold for er over er .
 tetrahydroisoquinoline derivative labeled with a positron emit radionuclide carbon-11 or fluorine-18 may enable non-invasive monitoring of er expression in breast cancer and breast cancer response to hormone therapy .
 we be interested in the development of pet breast cancer imaging agent .
 in previous work we have develop carbon-11 labeled cyclofenil derivative as new potential pet nonsteroidal estrogen radioligand for imaging er expression in breast cancer .
 this ongoing study be to develop new serm radioligand .
 to further develop therapeutic agent for diagnostic use we have first design synthesize and evaluate carbon-11 labeled tetrahydroisoquinoline derivative 11c methyl 1- 2- 4- 2- 4 fluorophenyl phenoxy ethyl piperidine-4-carboxylate 11c and 11c methyl 1- 2- 4- 2- 4 chlorophenyl phenoxy ethyl piperidine-4-carboxylate 11c as new potential serm radioligand for pet imaging of er expression in breast cancer .
 full-size image 28k chemical structure of estrogen and serm .
 view within article .
 result and .
 chemistry .
 synthesis of precursor and reference standard be design and accomplish through chemical modification of the previously report procedure .
 the synthetic approach be outline in scheme 2- 3-methoxyphenyl -1-ethanamine 1 be treat with ethyl chloroformate to furnish carbamate compound 2 in yield .
 the subsequent cyclization of compound 2 with polyphosphoric acid ppa provide bicyclic lactam compound 3 in yield .
 n-arylation of compound 3 with 1-fluoro-4-iodobenzene or 1-chloro-4-iodobenzene under ullmann-type condition use cui in dmf afford compound in and yield respectively .
 treatment of compound with benzyloxyphenyllithium and subsequent acidic workup with hclo4 give intermediate iminium salt in quantitative yield .
 the iminium salt be subsequently treat with memgbr in thf to give 1-methyl-tetrahydroisoquinolines in and yield respectively .
 alcl3-mediated debenzylation in the presence of me2nph in ch2cl2 of compound yield phenol in and yield respectively .
 alkylation of compound with brch2ch2cl or clch2ch2ots furnish compound in 52 yield .
 compound be treat with methyl piperidine-4-carboxylate to give ester in and yield respectively .
 the cleavage of the methyl ether of compound in the presence of alcl3 and etsh provide target tetrahydroisoquinoline compound as reference standard in and yield respectively .
 the hydrolysis of compound afford acid as precursor in and yield respectively .
 full-size image scheme synthesis of tetrahydroisoquinoline derivative .
 reagent and condition i clco2et et3n ch2cl2 rt 5 ii ppa c 2 iii ari cui k2co3 dmf reflux 4 iv liarobn generate from p-brarobn or p-arobn and n-buli thf 78 c 3 h hclo4 15 v memgbr thf c to rt 3 vi alcl3 me2nph ch2cl2 rt vii brch2ch2cl k2co3 ch3cn reflux 3 d or clch2ch2ots 2 butanone k2co3 reflux 2 viii methyl piperidine-4-carboxylate k2co3 ch3cn reflux 3 ix alcl3 etsh ch2cl2 c to rt 3 x koh meoh rt 12 h hcl .
 view within article .
 compound be select as the lead candidate for pet radioligand development for reason of er selectivity potency and feasibility of chemical modification to incorporate an o-methyl group at the ester moiety .
 the o-methyl group serve as a platform for radiolabeling of this series of methyl ester compound with a positron emit radioisotope carbon-11 as potential pet radiopharmaceutical .
 compound x f x cl be halo-tetrahydroisoquinoline compound and they be amenable to labeling with another positron emit radioisotope fluorine-18 by a conventional nucleophilic substitution with k 18f f kryptofix to be new fluorine-18 pet agent .
 in this regard compound be the precursor for compound in fluorine-18 radiolabeling reaction .
 radiochemistry .
 synthesis of the target tracer carbon-11 labeled tetrahydroisoquinoline derivative 11c be outline in scheme the precursor 11a or 11b be labeled by 11c methyl triflate 11c ch3otf through o- 11c methylation and isolate by a simplified solid-phase extraction spe purification to produce corresponding pure target radiolabeled compound 11c or 11c with radiochemical yield based on 11c co2 decay correct to end of bombardment eob .
 the large polarity difference between the acid precursor and the labeled o-methylated ester product permit the use of spe technique for purification of labeled product from radiolabeling reaction mixture .
 either a light c-18 sep-pak cartridge or a semi-prep c-18 guard cartridge column be use in spe purification technique .
 the reaction mixture be load onto the cartridge by gas pressure .
 the cartridge be wash with water to remove non-reacted 11c ch3otf acid precursor and reaction solvent and then final labeled product be eluted with ethanol .
 overall synthesis time be 15 min from eob .
 spe technique be fast efficient and convenient and work very well for the o-methylated tracer production .
 the radiosynthesis be perform in an automate multi-purpose 11c-radiosynthesis module allow measurement of specific activity during synthesis .
 the specific activity be estimate in a range of 74 111 gbq mol at the end of synthesis eos based on other compound produce use the same targetry condition which have be measure by the on-the-fly technique .
 the actual measurement of specific activity at eos by analytical high pressure liquid chromatography hplc method be in agreement with this estimation .
 the specific activity obtain in automate synthesis module be high since the methylation reagent we use be no-carrier-added high specific activity 11c ch3otf which be produce by the gas-phase production method from 11c co2 through 11c ch4 and 11c ch3br with silver triflate agotf column .
 in addition we use very small amount of the precursor 11a or 11b mg in radiosynthesis which also improve the specific activity datum .
 chemical purity and radiochemical purity be determine by analytical hplc method .
 the chemical purity of precursor and reference standard be .
 the radiochemical purity of target tracer be determine by radio-hplc through -ray nai flow detector and the chemical purity of target tracer be determine by reversed-phase hplc through uv flow detector .
 full-size image 14k scheme synthesis of carbon-11 labeled tetrahydroisoquinoline derivative .
 reagent and condition i 11c ch3otf ch3cn 3 n naoh .
 view within article .
 the o- 11c methylation of phenolic hydroxyl position on the precursor to form undesired radiolabeled ether byproduct be a potential compete reaction however previous result have indicate that the o- 11c methylation of acid position on the precursor to form desire radiolabeled ester product will be a major reaction .
 this result be consistent with the theoretical explanation that the deprotonization at the acid position of the precursor be much easy than at the phenolic hydroxyl position of the precursor since the acidity of ho at the acid position of the precursor be great than at the phenolic hydroxyl position of the precursor and the o- 11c methylation of the precursor will prefer to occur at the acid position rather than at the phenolic hydroxyl position .
 in addition the minimal formation of the undesired labeled byproduct estimate to be will be wash out with non-reacted 11c ch3otf acid precursor and reaction solvent by water during the spe purification since polarity be very similar .
 to prove that alkylation indeed occur at the carboxylate-o and not the phenylate-o a control experiment be design and conduct use a previously report procedure from laboratory .
 briefly the precursor 11a or 11b mg be dissolve in ch3cn ml .
 to this solution be add 3 n naoh 2 l and mm ch3otf l .
 the mixture be stir at room temperature rt for min and the reaction be monitor by the analytical hplc method aforementioned .
 the result show that precursor 11a or 11b be completely convert to compound or respectively as indicate by retention time tr 11a min tr min and tr 11b min tr min on hplc chromatograms .
 this chromatographic datum support conclusion .
 mcf-7 cell proliferation assay .
 compound be design and synthesize through a slight structural modification based on a novel series of tetrahydroisoquinoline derivative potent serm recently develop by renaud et which have be fully evaluate by radioligand binding assay and estrogen response element ere assay to er and er and inhibition of mcf-7 cell proliferation assay .
 thus we can assume that the slight structural modification of compound would not significantly change biological activity in light of the structure activity relationship sar .
 the preliminary biological evaluation of the synthesize new tetrahydroisoquinoline derivative be perform via an mcf-7 cell proliferation assay and compare to 4 hydroxytamoxifen .
 4-hydroxytamoxifen nm in mcf-7 cell be a much potent serm than parent compound tamoxifen nm in mcf-7 cell and mcf-7 cell line be an er positive human breast cancer cell line .
 the result be show in as indicate in 2 proliferation of mcf-7 cell be inhibit by nm of 4 hydroxytamoxifen also by high concentration .
 mcf-7 cell proliferation be inhibit only by nm of compound but not by high concentration .
 similar to 4 hydroxytamoxifen proliferation of mcf-7 cell be inhibit by nm of compound also by high concentration .
 taken collectively this result suggest that the new compound be prove to be potent serm with very high binding affinity to er comparable to that of the reference compound 4 hydroxytamoxifen under assay condition .
 full-size image 63k mcf-7 cell proliferation assay of 4 hydroxytamoxifen 4-htx and new tetrahydroisoquinoline derivative and .
 the x-axis represent blank cell control carrier and different concentration nm of 4-htx and and the y-axis represent average inhibition intensity in mcf-7 cell measure under optical density od nm .
 celltiter96 assay demonstrate that new tetrahydroisoquinoline derivative and have similar potency in the mcf-7 human breast cancer cell line compare to the reference compound 4-htx .
 view within article .
 conclusion .
 an efficient and convenient synthesis of new carbon-11 labeled tetrahydroisoquinoline derivative have be well develop .
 the synthetic methodology employ classical organic chemistry such as cyclization arylation debenzylation alkylation demethylation and hydrolysis reaction to synthesize unlabeled tetrahydroisoquinoline derivative .
 carbon-11 labeling at oxygen position of the precursor through o- 11c methylation be incorporate efficiently use 11c ch3otf a signature reaction of carbon-11 radiochemistry from laboratory .
 radiosynthesis produce new radioligand in amount and purity suitable for the preclinical application in animal study use pet .
 labeled product be suitable for injection with the high specific radioactivity in a range of 74 111 gbq mol at eos and can be obtain within min from eob include fast and efficient spe purification and formulation .
 preliminary finding from in vitro biological assay indicate that the synthesize new tetrahydroisoquinoline derivative display similar potency in the mcf-7 human breast cancer cell line in comparison with reference compound 4 hydroxytamoxifen .
 this result encourage far in vivo evaluation of carbon-11 labeled tetrahydroisoquinoline derivative as new potential serm radioligand for pet imaging of er expression in breast cancer .
 .
 general .
 all commercial reagent and solvent from aldrich and sigma be use without far 11c ch3otf be prepare accord to a literature procedure .
 melting point be determine on a mel-temp ii capillary tube apparatus and be uncorrected .
 1h nmr spectrum be record on a bruker qe nmr spectrometer use tetramethylsilane tms as an internal standard .
 chemical shift datum for the proton resonance be report in part per million ppm scale relative to internal standard tms and couple constant j be report in hertz hz .
 the low resolution mass spectrum lrms be obtain use a bruker biflex iii maldi-tof mass spectrometer and the high resolution mass spectrum hrms be obtain use a thermo mat 95xp-trap spectrometer .
 chromatographic solvent proportion be indicate in a ratio .
 thin layer chromatography be run use analtech silica gel gf uniplates cm2 .
 plates be visualize under uv light .
 normal phase flash chromatography be carry out on em science silica gel mesh with a force flow of the indicate solvent system in the proportion describe below .
 all moisture- and or air-sensitive reaction be perform under a positive pressure of nitrogen maintain by a direct line from a nitrogen source .
 analytical hplc be perform use a prodigy phenomenex 5 m c-18 column mm mm ph khpo4 buffer solution mobile phase flow rate ml min and uv 254 nm and -ray nai flow detector .
 light c-18 sep-pak cartridge be obtain from water corporate headquarters milford ma .
 semi-prep c-18 guard cartridge column 1 1 cm be obtain from industry berlin nj and part number m .
 sterile millex-gs m vent filter unit be obtain from millipore corporation bedford ma .
 ethyl 3 methoxyphenethylcarbamate 2 2- 3-methoxyphenyl -1-ethanamine 1 g mmol be dissolve in dichloromethane ml with et3n 51 ml mmol at ethyl chloroformate 35 ml mmol be add and stir be continue at rt for 5 h .
 the reaction mixture be wash with water ml 2 dry with mgso4 and filter .
 the organic phase be evaporate under reduce pressure to give oily compound 2 g rf meoh ch2cl2 .
 1h nmr cdcl3 t j hz 3h ch3 t j hz 2h ch2ch3 dd j hz 2h ch2ch2 s 3h och3 dd j hz 2h ch2ch2 s 1h conh m 3h ph-h t j hz 1h ph-h .
 2h -one 3 compound 2 g 135 mmol be treat with polyphosphoric acid ppa g at c under n2 atmosphere for 2 h .
 after the reaction mixture be cool down to rt ice-water be add ml and then extract with etoac ml 3 and ch2cl2 ml 2 wash with brine and dry with na2so4 .
 combined organic layer be evaporate and the residue be recrystallized from etoac or purify by column chromatography with silica gel to afford colorless solid 3 g mp 136 138 c rf etoac .
 1h nmr cdcl3 t j hz 2h ch2 dt j hz 2h ch2n s 3h och3 d j hz 1h ph-h d j hz 1h ph-h d j hz 1h ph-h d j hz 1h nhco .
 6-methoxy-2- 4 flurophenyl 4a a mixture of compound 3 g 46 mmol 1-fluoro-4-iodobenzene g mmol k2co3 g 46 mmol and cui g mmol in dmf ml be heat at c for 48 h under n2 atmosphere .
 after that a second portion of cui 876 mg mmol be add and heating be continue for another 48 h .
 then the mixture be pour into aqueous nh4oh ml and etoac ml .
 the layer be separate and the aqueous layer be extract with etoac ml 3 .
 the combine organic phase be wash with brine ml dry with na2so4 and concentrate in vacuo until the crystallization start .
 hexanes be add slowly to the solution .
 the crystallization provide white solid 4a g mp 132 134 c rf etoac hexanes .
 1h nmr cdcl3 t j hz 2h ch2 s 3h och3 t j hz 2h ch2 d j hz 1h ph-h dd j hz 1h ph-h t j hz 2h ph-h dd j hz 2h ph-h d j hz 1h ph-h .
 6-methoxy-2- 4 chlorophenyl 4b according to the procedure for preparation of 4a compound 4b be prepare from compound 3 and 1-chloro-4-iodobenzene in yield as white solid mp 169 171 c rf etoac hexanes .
 1h nmr cdcl3 t j hz 2h ch2 s 3h och3 t j hz 2h ch2 d j hz 1h ph-h dd j hz 2h ph-h m 4h ph-h d j hz 1h ph-h .
 1- 4- benzyloxy phenyl -2- 4 fluorophenyl 5a to a cold solution 78 c of 4 benzyloxybromobenzene g mmol in anhydrous thf ml be add a solution of n-buli m ml 28 mmol over a period of min .
 after the resultant suspension be stir at 78 c for min a solution of compound 4a g mmol in anhydrous thf ml be add over min .
 stirring be continue for min .
 the reaction mixture be pour into water ml and etoac ml .
 hclo4 ml be add and the mixture be stir for min .
 the ph value of aqueous layer be adjust to 5 by addition of aqueous nahco3 .
 the layer be separate and the aqueous layer be extract with etoac ml 3 .
 the combine organic layer be wash with brine ml and dry with mgso4 and the solution be concentrate in vacuo to obtain yellowish solid 5a g which be use directly in the next step without far purification mp 133 135 c rf ch3oh ch2cl2 .
 1h nmr cdcl3 t j hz 2h ch2 s 3h och3 t j hz 2h ch2 s 2h och2ph m 6h ph-h t j hz 2h ph-h d j hz 1h ph-h m 7h ph-h .
 ms esi 438 .
 1- 4- benzyloxy phenyl -2- 4 chlorophenyl 5b according to the procedure for preparation of 5a compound 5b be prepare from compound 4b in yield as yellowish solid mp 154 156 c rf ch3oh ch2cl2 .
 1h nmr cdcl3 t j hz 2h ch2 s 3h och3 t j hz 2h ch2 s 2h och2ph m 4h ph-h m 7h ph-h m 5h ph-h .
 ms esi 454 .
 1- 4-benzyloxyphenyl -6-methoxy-2- 4 fluorophenyl 6a to a cold solution c of compound 5a g mmol in anhydrous thf ml be add a solution of memgbr in et2o m 11 ml 33 mmol over 15 min .
 the resultant mixture be stir at c for min and be allow to warm up to rt .
 the suspension be pour into saturate aqueous nh4cl ml after be stir for 2 h .
 the aqueous layer be extract with ch2cl2 ml 3 .
 the combine organic phase be wash with brine ml dry with na2so4 and concentrate in vacuo .
 the crude product be recrystallized from etoac hexanes or purify by column chromatography with silica gel to provide white solid 6a g mp 114 115 c rf etoac hexanes .
 1h nmr cdcl3 s 3h ch3 m 2h ch2 m 2h ch2 s 3h och3 s 2h och2 m 9h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h m 5h ph-h .
 1- 4-benzyloxyphenyl -6-methoxy-2- 4 chlorophenyl 6b according to the procedure for preparation of 6a compound 6b be prepare from compound 5b in yield as white solid mp 148 c rf etoac hexanes .
 1h nmr cdcl3 s 3h ch3 9 dt j hz 1h chh ddd j hz 1h chh m 1h chh m 1h chh s 3h och3 s 2h och2 d j hz 1h ph-h m 3h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h m 5h ph-h .
 4- 6-methoxy-2- 4 fluorophenyl phenol 7a a solution of compound 6a g mmol alcl3 g mmol and me2nph g mmol in ch2cl2 ml be stir at rt for h .
 water ml and ch2cl2 ml be add to the reaction mixture and the ph value of aqueous layer be adjust to 5 with aqueous nahco3 .
 the layer be separate aqueous layer be extract with ch2cl2 ml 2 and then etoac ml 3 .
 the combine organic phase be wash with brine dry with mgso4 and concentrate in vacuo .
 the resultant oil be purify by column chromatography with silica gel to afford white solid product 7a g mp 56 57 c rf etoac hexanes .
 1h nmr cdcl3 s 3h ch3 dt j hz 1h chh m 1h chh m 2h ch2 s 3h och3 s 1h oh m 2h ph-h m 7h ph-h d j hz ph-h .
 4- 6-methoxy-2- 4 chlorophenyl phenol 7b according to the procedure for preparation of 7a compound 7b be prepare from compound 6b in yield as white solid mp 112 c rf etoac hexanes .
 1h nmr cdcl3 s 3h ch3 dt j hz 1h chh m 1h chh m 2h ch2 s 3h och3 1h oh d j hz 2h ph-h m 5h ph-h m 4h ph-h .
 1- 4- 2-chloroethoxy phenyl -2- 4 fluorophenyl 8a method a a solution of compound 7a 363 mg 1 mmol 1-bromo-2-chloroethane 789 mg 5 mmol and k2co3 mg mmol in ch3cn ml be heat to reflux for 3 day .
 the reaction mixture be filter and concentrate .
 the residue be purify by column chromatography with silica gel to give white solid 8a 221 mg .
 method b a solution of compound 7a g 5 mmol 2 chloroethyl 4-methylbenzenesulfonate g mmol and k2co3 g mmol in 2 butanone ml be heat to reflux for 3 day .
 the reaction mixture be filter and concentrate .
 the residue be purify by column chromatography with silica gel to give white solid 8a g mp 119 121 c rf etoac hexanes .
 1h nmr cdcl3 s 3h ch3 dt j hz chh m 1h chh m 2h ch2 s 3h och3 t j hz 2h ch2cl t j hz 2h ch2o m 4h ph-h m 5h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h .
 1- 4- 2-chloroethoxy phenyl -2- 4 chlorophenyl 8b according to the method b for preparation of 8a compound 8b be prepare from compound 7b in yield as white solid mp 138 c rf etoac hexanes .
 1h nmr cdcl3 s 3h ch3 dt j hz 1h chh m 1h chh m 2h ch2 s 3h och3 t j hz 2h ch2cl t j hz och2 d j hz 2h ph-h m 3h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h .
 methyl 1- 2- 4- 2- 4 fluorophenyl phenoxy ethyl piperidine-4-carboxylate 9a a solution of compound 8a 852 mg 2 mmol methyl piperidine-4-carboxylate 572 mg 4 mmol and k2co3 691 mg 5 mmol in ch3cn ml be heat to reflux for 3 day .
 the reaction mixture be filter and concentrate .
 the residue be purify by column chromatography with silica gel to give white solid 9a mg mp c rf etoac hexanes .
 1h nmr cdcl3 s 3h ch3 m 4h m 3h t j hz 2h nch2 m 3h m 3h s 3h och3 s 3h och3 t j hz 2h och2 m 2h ph-h m 7h ph-h d j hz ph-h .
 ms ci 533 m h 532 .
 hrms ci calcd for c32h38o4n2f find .
 methyl 1- 2- 4- 2- 4 chlorophenyl phenoxy ethyl piperidine-4-carboxylate 9b according to the procedure for preparation of 9a compound 9b be prepare from compound 8b in yield as white solid mp 76 78 c rf etoac hexanes .
 1h nmr cdcl3 s 3h ch3 m 4h m 3h t j hz 2h nch2 m 3h m 1h m 2h s 3h och3 s 3h och3 t j hz 2h och2 d j hz 2h ph-h m 2h ph-h m 2h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h .
 ms ci 549 m h 548 .
 hrms ci calcd for c32h38o4n2cl find .
 methyl 1- 2- 4- 2- 4 fluorophenyl phenoxy ethyl piperidine-4-carboxylate to a cold solution c of compound 9a 212 mg mmol and etsh ml in ch2cl2 15 ml be add alcl3 213 mg mmol .
 the mixture be stir at c for 1 h and then at rt for 3 h .
 the reaction be quench by add some water and the ph value of the solution be adjust to 6 with aqueous nahco3 .
 then the mixture be extract with ch2cl2 ml 3 .
 the combine organic layer be wash with brine dry with mgso4 and concentrate in vacuo .
 the residue be purify by column chromatography with silica gel to afford white solid 85 mg mp 95 97 c rf ch3oh ch2cl2 .
 1h nmr cd3od s 3h ch3 m 5h m 3h m 3h m 3h m 1h s 3h och3 t j hz 2h och2 m 5h ph-h m 4h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h .
 ms esi 519 m h .
 hrms ci calcd for c31h36o4n2f find .
 methyl 1- 2- 4- 2- 4 chlorophenyl phenoxy ethyl piperidine-4-carboxylate according to the procedure for preparation of compound be prepare from compound 9b in yield as white solid mp 72 74 c rf ch3oh ch2cl2 .
 1h nmr cd3od s 3h ch3 m 4h m 4h m 3h m 3h m 1h s 3h och3 t j hz 2h och2 m 5h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h .
 ms esi 535 m h .
 hrms ci calcd for c31h36o4n2cl find .
 1- 2- 4- 2- 4-fluorophenyl phenoxy ethyl piperidine-4-carboxylic acid 11a a solution of compound 52 mg mmol potassium hydroxide 56 mg 1 mmol and methanol 15 ml be stir at rt for 12 h .
 the mixture be evaporate in vacuo add water 5 ml and adjust ph to 5 6 with 1 n hcl .
 the mixture solution be extract with etoac ml 3 wash with brine dry with mgso4 and concentrate in vacuo .
 the residue be purify by column chromatography to give yellow compound 11a 44 mg mp 185 187 c rf ch3oh ch2cl2 .
 1h nmr cd3od s 3h ch3 m 4h m 1h m 3h m 1h m 3h m 3h t j hz 2h och2 m 4h ph-h m 5h ph-h d j hz ph-h .
 ms esi m h .
 hrms ci calcd for find .
 1- 2- 4- 2- 4-chlorophenyl phenoxy ethyl piperidine-4-carboxylic acid 11b according to the procedure for preparation of 11a compound 11b be prepare from compound in yield as yellow solid mp 174 176 c rf ch3oh ch2cl2 .
 1h nmr cd3od s 3h ch3 m 5h m 1h m 5h m 4h t j hz och2 m 5h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h d j hz 2h ph-h s 1h oh .
 ms esi 521 m h .
 hrms ci calcd for find .
 general method for the preparation of carbon-11 labeled tetrahydroisoquinoline derivative 11c methyl 1- 2- 4- 2- 4 fluorophenyl phenoxy ethyl piperidine-4-carboxylate 11c and 11c methyl 1- 2- 4- 2- 4 chlorophenyl phenoxy ethyl piperidine-4-carboxylate 11c 11c co2 be produce by the 14n 11c nuclear reaction in small volume cm3 aluminum gas target cti from 11 mev proton cyclotron on research purity nitrogen o2 in a siemens radionuclide delivery system eclipse rds-111 .
 the acid precursor 11a or 11b mg be dissolve in ch3cn l .
 to this solution be add 3 n naoh 2 l .
 the mixture be transfer to a small reaction 11c ch3otf that be produce from 11c co2 through 11c ch4 and 11c ch3br with agotf column be pass into the reaction vial which be cool to c until radioactivity reach a maximum 2 min and then the reaction vial be isolate and heat at c for 3 min .
 the content of the reaction vial be dilute with nahco3 1 ml m .
 the reaction tube be connect to either a light c-18 sep-pak cartridge or a semi-prep c-18 guard cartridge column .
 the labeled product mixture solution be pass onto the cartridge for spe purification by gas pressure .
 the cartridge be wash with h2o 3 ml 2 and the aqueous washing be discard .
 the product be eluted from the column with etoh 3 ml 2 and then pass onto a rotatory evaporator .
 the solvent be remove by evaporation under vacuum .
 the labeled product 11c or 11c be formulate with saline sterile-filtered through a sterile vent millex-gs m cellulose acetate membrane and collect into a sterile vial volume be dependent upon the use of the labeled product in tissue biodistribution study 6 ml 2 ml 3 or in pet imaging study 1 3 ml .
 total radioactivity be assay and the total volume ml be note .
 the overall synthesis time include spe purification and formulation be 15 min .
 the radiochemical yield be decay correct to eob from 11c co2 and at eos respectively .
 retention time in the analytical hplc system be tr 11a min tr min tr 11c min and tr 11b min tr min tr 11c min .
 mcf-7 cell proliferation assay .
 mcf-7 cell proliferation assay be perform follow a literature procedure .
 briefly cell proliferation be perform use celltiter96 kit .
 for proliferation assay l of medium contain mcf-7 breast cancer cell be plate in a 96 well flat-bottom microplate becton dickinson lincoln park nj and be incubate at 37 c for 24 h in the presence of nm of reference compound 4 hydroxytamoxifen and synthesize new compound .
 following treatment l of the reagent the tetrazolium compound mts promega madison wi be add to each well and incubation be continue at 37 c for 1 h .
 the absorbance be measure at a wavelength of nm .
 control cell be not incubate with 4 hydroxytamoxifen and .
 each series be perform in triplicate .
 acknowledgment .
 this work be partially support by the susan komen for the cure grant breast cancer research foundation and indiana genomic initiative ingen of indiana university which be support in part by lilly endowment inc .
 the author would like to thank bruce mock and barbara glick-wilson for assistance in production of 11c ch3otf .
 the referee criticism and editor 's comment for the revision of the manuscript be greatly appreciate .
 the operation remove the nipple areola complex skin overlying superficial tumor and any previous surgical biopsy site together with the entire breast parenchyma and be follow by immediate breast reconstruction ibr .
 ssm preserve a native skin envelope include the inframammary fold facilitate an optimal breast reconstruction .
 the superiority of ssm follow by ibr compare with other reconstruction method have be establish by several study in term of cosmetic and functional due to the relatively recent introduction of ssm and the little extensive resection of skin compare with conventional mastectomy concern persist that ssm might increase the risk of local or regional recurrence .
 a limited number of study have not show an increase in local recurrence associate with however many of this series include either small sample size or short follow-up time in addition to heterogeneous patient material with vary stage of breast cancer both invasive and noninvasive .
 the aim of this study be to examine incidence of local recurrence in a 15 year consecutive series of breast cancer patient with either stage 1 or 2 disease11 have undergo ssm and ibr at a single population-based institution .
 in addition this study aim to examine the occurrence of systemic relapse in association with local recurrence .
 patient and method patient .
 much of the skin-sparing mastectomy during the study period be perform on patient with stage disease and this be exclude from study .
 a retrospective review of 146 consecutive patient with either stage 1 or 2 breast cancer who undergo ssm follow by ibr from 1992 to be carry out .
 the operation be perform at the 4th department of surgery of helsinki university central hospital until the end of 1999 and at the department of plastic surgery and the breast surgery unit of helsinki university central hospital from the beginning of .
 patient record be analyzed for patient tumor and treatment characteristic .
 detail on tumor characteristic be obtain from the pathology report whereas surgical record and radiology report be analyzed for follow-up datum on pattern and timing of recurrence .
 the american joint committee on cancer ajcc stage system from be use for grouping patient accord to stage of the .
 the research plan be approve by helsinki university central hospital 's head of surgery and permission be grant for examination of patient record .
 surgery .
 the ssm be perform by experienced breast surgeon in an establish manner .
 the nipple areola complex together with the entire breast parenchyma be remove as well as any exist biopsy scar and skin overlying superficial tumor .
 periareolar and tennis racquet type incision be much commonly use .
 in case of a superficial tumor or a previous biopsy scar an elliptical incision be use include the nipple areola complex the surgical biopsy scar and skin overlying the superficial tumor .
 the ssm be frequently combine with axillary lymph node dissection or sentinel lymph node biopsy .
 generally a dissection of the level i ii axillary lymph node be perform when the pre-operative diagnosis be invasive carcinoma .
 when only dcis be pre-operatively suspect a dissection of level i axillary lymph node be perform .
 sentinel lymph node biopsy be perform from onwards .
 altogether dissection of level i ii axillary lymph node be perform on 91 patient level i axillary clearance on 32 patient and sentinel lymph node biopsy on 21 patient .
 the ssm be follow by ibr perform by a team of reconstructive plastic surgeon .
 the reconstruction method be determine by patient anatomy and preference and a variety of method be use four sub-muscular prostheses 24 latissimus dorsi ld flap 21 ld flap with prostheses transverse rectus abdominis musculocutaeous tram microvascular flap 14 deep inferior epigastric perforator diep microvascular flap and two superficial inferior epigastric artery siea microvascular flap be use .
 adjuvant systemic and radiotherapy .
 adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy be administer accord to finnish national evidence-based guideline .
 generally radiotherapy be administer to lymph node positive patient and to patient with primary tumor of much than 5 cm in diameter .
 altogether 32 patient in series receive radiotherapy .
 chemotherapy be generally administer to patient with a high risk of recurrence .
 thus lymph node positive patient and patient with a primary tumor of much than 5 cm in diameter usually receive chemotherapy .
 chemotherapy be also administer to patient with small primary tumor with histological grade 2 or 3 or with negative hormone receptor .
 in addition patient young than 35 year of age receive chemotherapy .
 fifty-five patient in series receive chemotherapy .
 furthermore a five-year antiestrogen medication be administer to patient with hormone receptor positive tumor and in addition either positive lymph node or tumor with histological grade 2 or .
 follow-up and classification of recurrence .
 all of the patient be schedule for a follow-up program with first clinical checkup at 4 6 week after the operation and subsequent clinical examination by a surgeon and or oncologist as well as mammography and ultrasound of the breast and regional lymph node area at 1 3 and 5 year .
 recurrence be classify into local regional and systemic accord to the first site of recurrence .
 local recurrence include only isolate skin and or subcutaneous recurrence since no chest wall recurrence be account for .
 regional recurrence include only isolate regional lymph node metastasis .
 result patient and tumor characteristic .
 patient and tumor characteristic be describe in table seventeen patient with stage 1 disease have microinvasive dcis .
 furthermore three patient with dcis be axillary node positive with nodal histology of ductal carcinoma metastasis but no apparent invasion in the breast specimen .
 table .
 patient and tumor characteristic .
 stage 1stage 2astage 2btotal age range year 29 6429 68 mean age year 48474648 dcis173 ductal lobular carcinoma77519 other4116 total of patients914114146 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 recurrence rate and follow-up time .
 recurrence be describe in table the mean follow-up time of series be 51 month range 2 159 month .
 the overall recurrence rate be include the systemic recurrence .
 isolated local recurrence occur at a rate of and the incidence of isolate regional lymph node recurrence be for a combine locoregional recurrence rate of .
 none of the 14 patient with stage 2b disease have a recurrence during the follow-up time .
 table .
 recurrence by stage .
 stage 1stage 2astage 2btotal total of patients914114146 mean follow-up time month 53494551 local skin subcutaneous recurrences4 dcis ductal carcinoma21 3 lobular carcinoma 1 1 regional lymph node recurrences3 dcis ductal carcinoma3 3 lobular carcinoma systemic recurrences4 dcis ductal carcinoma11 2 lobular carcinoma11 2 full-size table .
 view within article .
 all of the locoregional recurrence be isolate without sign of synchronous systemic disease .
 the mean interval to locoregional recurrence be month range 19 67 month and the mean follow-up time after detection of locoregional recurrence be month range 3 65 month .
 all of the patient who develop a locoregional recurrence be node negative at the time of primary surgery the two stage 2a patient have a disease .
 consequently none of this patient receive radio- or chemotherapy after the primary surgery .
 localization size and detection of local recurrence .
 all four of the local recurrence be locate in the area of spare skin envelope .
 two of this be detect by clinical examination one be detect by mammography and one be detect by ultrasound .
 the size of three of this local recurrence be mm and one be 22 mm in diameter .
 treatment of locoregional recurrence .
 all of the locoregional recurrence be treat by salvage surgery of the recurrence follow by radio- and chemotherapy .
 healthy margin be obtain in all case of salvage surgery and none of the breast reconstruction be endanger .
 during follow-up none of this patient develop new local regional or systemic recurrence .
 discussion local recurrence rate .
 as breast cancer surgeon have gradually adopt little extensive and much conserve technique concern on the oncological safety of new surgical approach have be raise .
 especially ssm have be discuss for potentially increase local recurrence by leave much of the breast skin intact .
 nevertheless despite vary surgical approach over the year there have not be much change in the local recurrence .
 the local recurrence rate of and locoregional recurrence rate of in series be well comparable with the result of other study .
 nevertheless compare this study be not straightforward as many of them include patient with stage disease and some also include stage 3 and 4 patient .
 in addition the guideline for administer chemo- and radiotherapy differ somewhat between country .
 different indication for radiotherapy after mastectomy may affect the local recurrence rate of this different study as radiotherapy have be show to substantially reduce local recurrence independent of tumor .
 table .
 local recurrence lr rate after ssm and ibr in previously publish paper with much than patient include .
 authoryearyears coverednumber of patientsstagesfollow-up month lr rate carlson et newman et 19933721 greenway et spiegel and medina-franco et 19971731 kroll et meretoja et report1992 .
 full-size table .
 view within article .
 follow-up and management of local recurrence .
 key to successful local recurrence management be early detection follow by salvage surgery with healthy margin and subsequent adjuvant nevertheless there be no common agreement on how the follow-up of ssm and ibr patient should be organize .
 regular clinical examination be the basis of all follow-up scheme while substantial variation take place in the frequency and span of the follow-up checkup as well as in the routine use of mammography and routine follow-up system for all patient comprise mammography and ultrasound as well as clinical examination by a surgeon and or oncologist at 1 3 and 5 year from surgery .
 the routine use of imaging in the follow-up be support by finding as only two of the four local recurrence be detect by clinical examination alone whereas one be detect by mammography and one by ultrasound .
 prognosis after local recurrence .
 local recurrence after mastectomy have generally be regard as an indicator of poor prognosis although this have be challenge by some study .
 in a study by medina-franco et of patient who develop a local recurrence after ssm later develop distant metastases and die of disease within a mean of 21 month after the local recurrence .
 in another study by langstein et of patient with local recurrence after ibr develop distant metastases .
 on the other hand carlson et show that of stage 1 patient who be treat for local recurrence after ssm and ibr have no evidence of disease at the end of follow-up whereas the same be true only for of stage 2 patient .
 in present series all of the patient who be treat for a local or regional recurrence be disease free at the end of an average follow-up of month after the detection and treatment of the recurrence .
 the excellent outcome of local recurrence treatment in series might in part be due to the fact that five of the seven patient with locoregional recurrence have an early stage disease stage 1 and also the two stage 2a patient be node negative at the time of primary surgery .
 furthermore the local recurrence be detect at an early stage facilitate radical salvage surgery with healthy margin .
 additionally radio- and chemotherapy be administer to all of patient follow surgical treatment of the recurrence .
 conclusion .
 present study conclude that ssm follow by ibr seem oncologically sound procedure for stage 1 and 2 breast cancer patient .
 in addition study confirm the finding that local recurrence be not always associate with systemic relapse .
 recently publish datum have show that the rt regimen produce moderate but definite reduction not only in breast cancer mortality but also overall mortality 1 and 2 .
 the benefit of postmastectomy rt independent of the effect of systemic treatment be also show in study from the danish breast cancer cooperative group and the british columbia study 3 4 and 5 .
 however the first meta-analysis report do not find any advantage in overall survival at and year 6 .
 one explanation be the increase of non breast cancer-related death particularly cardiac disease in relationship to old radiation technique 7 and 8 .
 two oppose tangential photon beam be a common technique for postmastectomy rt to the chest wall 9 and .
 electron beam rt of the chest wall be also routinely use 9 11 12 13 14 and 15 .
 it have already be show that this technique yield locoregional control disease-free survival and overall survival rate similar to those of standard photon beam rt 15 and 16 .
 other important problem be the junction of the internal mammary chain imc field supraclavicular field and the chest wall electron beam field .
 computed tomography ct -based localization of the imc have be study already and some rule be develop to define the field limit 17 .
 electron beam rt to the chest wall with or without lymph node irradiation have be use at the institut curie for year .
 the purpose of this study be to report the late improvement of technique and to assess the early toxicity .
 method and material .
 for year electron have be use for postmastectomy adjuvant irradiation of the chest wall at the institut curie and a few thousand patient have be treat with it .
 at the institut curie postmastectomy adjuvant irradiation be indicate for lymph node-positive tumor at initial presentation for patient treat with neoadjuvant chemotherapy the indication remain even if the histologic examination show a complete tumor response in the lymph node tumor mm clinically multiple tumor and vascular invasion in young patient .
 the prescribe dose have be gy in 25 fraction to the chest wall and regional lymph node treat by photon for the supraclavicular and axillary region and a mix photon-electron technique for the imc area .
 no boost be give to the mastectomy scar .
 the new technique be a dosimetric improvement of the standard technique without any change in the treatment volume chest wall and lymph node area or the prescribe dose .
 the dose distribution be calculate use treatment planning software isis technologie diffusion paris france .
 the dose calculation be perform use the same calculation parameter for the new and standard technique .
 study design .
 the study be split into two part .
 a new electron radiation technique be design and compare with the standard one dosimetric study .
 then the early skin toxicity of new technique be evaluate prospectively in the first 25 patient use radiation therapy oncology group criterion and report clinical study 9 .
 treatment planning for institut curie standard technique .
 since treatment plan be perform on ct slice acquire with a simulator ct varian ximatron to be much adapt to the patient 's anatomy .
 five ct slice be perform in the chest wall area from the central axis to 2 cm inside the superior and inferior limit .
 because of the unavailability of a large-bore ct scanner in department the anatomic datum be take at the simulator ct scanner .
 this allow an ideal patient position on an angle breast board with horizontality of the thorax which be important for electron to avoid source-to-skin distance effect and the patient 's arm at from the craniocaudal direction so that a angle chest wall beam would not intersect either the contralateral breast or the dorsal muscle .
 when important irregularity of the chest wall be present much slice be acquire .
 one ct slice be acquire at the supraclavicular mid-field .
 the clinical target volume of the chest wall include the breast bed mastectomy scar with 1 2 cm margin and imc and supraclavicular area .
 since electron beam irradiation be standard for postmastectomy treatment .
 the setup facility of a direct en face field be a convincing reason to choose it .
 the lymph node irradiation at the institut curie have be previously describe 17 .
 a mix photon and electron beam in the imc area be technique of choice to avoid unnecessary irradiation of the heart with a ratio of about gy gy between the photon and electron dose .
 the supraclavicular area be irradiate with photon .
 the patient lie on an angle breast board with an angle of 15 to bring the thorax of the patient to a horizontal position .
 the irradiation consist of three separate field the chest wall imc and supraclavicular field .
 the technique use a angle chest wall beam with a separate anterior imc field .
 a gap of 5 mm be systematically use for the junction between the chest wall and the imc field and between the chest wall and the supraclavicular field .
 a generous 2 cm margin be add to ensure that the target volume would be entirely encompass in the homogeneous part of the electron beam .
 to ensure a sufficient skin dose a 5 mm bolus be systematically use .
 electron energy be choose so that the isodose gy be situate at the costal wall depth .
 the energy available on treatment machine saturne 41 varian and routinely use for chest wall irradiation be 9 and mev .
 when energy mev be necessary the patient be treat by photon only or with mix photon and electron to avoid late skin complication .
 for all patient the treatment plan be optimized and adapt to the individual patient anatomy .
 the dose distribution in the central axis plane of the chest wall be give in the isodose be situate at the costal wall depth .
 the skin receive a dose of of the prescribe dose .
 to evaluate the dose at the imc a dose point imc reference point be position at the depth of the lung interface 3 cm laterally to the medial line and at the central transverse plane through the imc target volume as previously show in the ct scan study 17 .
 despite the 5 mm gap between the imc and chest wall field in much case an overdosage of 55 gy be observe .
 full-size image 43k patient position and standard postmastectomy field chest wall electron internal mammary chain photon and electron and supraclavicular node photon .
 view within article .
 full-size image 39k standard technique dose distribution for prescribe total dose .
 view within article .
 treatment planning for new irradiation technique .
 a new irradiation technique be recently implement at institution after approval from board of radiation oncology .
 the chest wall and imc volume be now include into one unique field at a gantry angle of from the vertical .
 during the simulation the radiation oncologist determine the clinical volume of the chest wall to be irradiate and also delineate the imc target volume .
 the electron energy be choose so that the isodose be at the costal wall depth when a 5 mm bolus be in place .
 then the bolus be modify in two dimension on each of the five chest wall ct slice so that the imc and chest wall be well cover by the isodose gy .
 full-size image 47k postmastectomy field for new technique chest wall electron internal mammary chain electron and photon boost and supraclavicular node photon .
 view within article .
 full-size image 38k dose distribution for prescribe dose use new technique .
 view within article .
 because of the beam obliquity and the source-to-skin distance variation the imc be often underdosed .
 in clinical practice layer of 5 mm silicon bolusil be use as a bolus material .
 in standard technique the imc be irradiate by a mix photon-electron field separate from the chest wall field .
 no bolus be use in this area .
 during simulation of the new technique chest wall include the imc area the radiation oncologist delineate the imc old field .
 when dosimetrically need part of the bolus be remove corresponding to the size of the old imc field .
 when the imc reference point receive a dose per fraction inferior to gy part of the bolus be remove from the imc region so that the electron go deep into the nodal area .
 a boost to the imc complete the dose to a total of gy .
 to well spare the skin when the additional dose be deliver to the imc the boost field be deliver with photon 6 mv .
 it be treat with fraction prescribe at maximal dose once or twice weekly depending on the complement dose to be deliver .
 full-size image 27k bolus shape and position part of bolus remove to obtain well dose distribution in internal mammary chain missing portion correspond to internal mammary chain field of standard technique .
 edges be beveled to avoid high-dose variation at transition .
 view within article .
 in the lateral external part of the chest wall a distance effect be also present .
 moreover the chest wall be always thick in that region .
 this lead to an underdosage of the lateral chest wall .
 to become much conformal we would also need to boost that portion of the chest wall 18 .
 standard technique plan also include the same dosimetric defect .
 a previous retrospective study 19 show no recurrence in that area .
 we therefore decide not to complement the dose in that part of the chest wall .
 when the reference isodose gy enter into the ipsilateral lung a second layer of cm bolus material be place on each ct slice as need .
 the bolus be prepare by the dosimetrist .
 when two layer of bolus be need to protect the lung a beam 's eye view show the projection of the bolus layer be use for bolus confection .
 the transversal and sagittal laser position be mark on the patient 's skin and on each of the bolus layer to ensure reproducible positioning at every fraction .
 because a steep edge of the bolus produce hot and cold spot in the subcutaneous area beneath it the bolus edge be beveled at the workshop .
 full-size image 59k new technique with two thickness of bolus a position and reproducibility and b dose distribution .
 view within article .
 dosimetric comparison with standard technique .
 the dosimetry study include the first 25 patient treat with the new technique .
 to evaluate the dosimetric advantage of this technique we perform a second treatment plan for each patient use the standard technique .
 for each treatment plan standard and new technique we have report the maximal dose in the treat volume the dose receive at the imc reference point the depth of the isodose measure from the posterior border of the sternum on the medial plane and in the central axis slice the depth of the isodose measure from the posterior border of the sternum laterally to the sternum at ipsilateral edge and in the central axis slice and the maximal depth of the isodose in the ipsilateral lung in the central axis slice .
 prospective clinical study .
 the datum of all patient treat with the new technique be prospectively record and early toxicity be assess weekly accord to the radiation therapy oncology group classification 9 .
 the radiation therapy oncology group grade be as follow grade no skin reaction grade 1 follicular faint or dull erythema epilation dry desquamation and decrease sweat grade 2 tender or bright erythema patchy moist desquamation and moderate edema grade 3 confluent moist desquamation other than skin fold and pit edema and grade 4 ulceration hemorrhage and necrosis .
 result dosimetric study .
 a chest wall dose of gy be prescribe for both technique .
 in the standard technique the imc dose be deliver with photon gy and electron gy .
 in the new technique depending on the conformation of the patient it be necessary to add a dose of 5 gy to the imc use a photon boost .
 standard technique use different gantry angle for the imc and the chest wall .
 this create hot spot as show in table 1 which summarize the main dosimetric difference between new technique and standard technique .
 table .
 dosimetric comparison between new and standard technique execute in 25 patient .
 variablenew technique n 25 standard technique n 25 maximal dose gy 62 mean imc dose 58 mean depth isodose cm medial plane mean depth isodose cm parasternal mean depth isodose cm lung mean .
 full-size table .
 abbreviation imc internal mammary chain sd standard deviation .
 prescribed dose to chest wall gy .
 dose receive at imc reference point .
 distance from posterior border of sternum to isodose curve .
 distance from posterior lateral border of sternum to isodose curve .
 maximal depth of isodose curve in lung .
 view within article .
 the maximal dose find on the five slice be gy for the new technique and gy for the standard technique .
 the hot spot of the standard technique plan be situate at the overlap between the imc and chest wall field .
 the mean dose at the imc reference point be gy and gy for the new and standard plan respectively .
 in the medial plane the isodose be at cm from the sternum with the new technique and cm with the standard plan .
 at the lateral border of the sternum the isodose be also deep in the standard plan .
 the isodose be at a cm depth in the homolateral lung in the new plan .
 it be deep by cm cm in the standard plan .
 clinical prospective study .
 to date 25 patient have be treat study and follow .
 three patient develop a grade reaction 12 a grade 1 8 a grade 2 and 2 a grade 3 reaction at the end of rt .
 two patient undergo concomitant radiochemotherapy and one of them experience a grade 1 and one a grade 3 reaction .
 the median radiation dose be gy range 48 52 gy and the rt duration be 37 day range 36 day .
 discussion .
 standard electron irradiation technique have be use for year at the institut curie .
 this study report on the early evaluation of improvement .
 the choice of rt field have be based on the pattern of local and regional recurrence .
 much mastectomy series have demonstrate that of local recurrence develop in the chest wall especially in the mastectomy scar with the second much common site the supraclavicular region and 21 .
 it have be show that advance disease at presentation and positive lymph node after chemotherapy predict for clinically significant rate of locoregional recurrence 22 .
 therefore postmastectomy irradiation to the chest wall and supraclavicular region be recommend in patient with four or much positive lymph node 23 and 24 .
 it have already be show that the optimal dose that offer the great chance of locoregional control of breast cancer at the low cost in locoregional morbidity appear to be gy in 2-gy fraction 2 .
 different technique have be use for irradiation of the chest wall and regional lymph node 9 and .
 numerous study have confirm that postmastectomy electron beam chest wall irradiation be as effective as photon beam chest wall irradiation for local control and overall survival 11 12 13 14 15 and 16 .
 it have also be demonstrate that this technique be little toxic 16 .
 study have confirm this find and report a dosimetric improvement of standard technique .
 dosimetric comparison .
 at institution new breast cancer patient be treat every year about one-third of whom be postmastectomy patient .
 the challenge be therefore to change technique without involve time-consuming practice for the dosimetrist or therapist .
 improvement be need because standard technique produce hot spot and be not conformal enough .
 as have already be note because of the unavailability of a large-bore ct scanner in department the anatomic datum be preferably take at the simulator ct .
 it be show that a patient 's model reconstructed from five slice be comparable to three-dimensional ct acquisition regard beam placement and dosimetric optimization 25 .
 however when important irregularity be present in the chest wall much ct slice be perform .
 treatment planning software isis use an electron algorithm similar to the primary-scattered radiation concept originally develop for photon beam 26 .
 it account for source-to-skin distance effect throughout the field as well as penumbra change in depth .
 however heterogeneity correction be calculate with an equivalent depth method and be therefore very inaccurate .
 for this reason it be decide in the clinic that the dose distribution should be show with no heterogeneity correction with particular attention to optimizing the dose distribution within the chest wall choice of energy and bolus shaping to get the isodose at the costal wall .
 the new technique use one unique electron beam that include both the chest wall and the imc target volume demonstrate a well dose homogeneity .
 with standard technique in which we treat the imc separately with mix photon and electron we choose different electron energy for the imc and the chest wall .
 with one unique field in the new treatment plan the depth modulation be perform with a change in bolus thickness or 1 cm .
 because the change in shape in the craniocaudal direction be well represent by five ct slice it be possible to design a bolus from the datum from simulator ct slice .
 the shaping of the bolus associate with the choice of energy by step of mev improve the conformality of the dose distribution .
 because the plan be do use five ct slice the treatment planning time have not noticeably increase thus it have be possible to apply this new planning method to all mastectomy patient allow them to benefit from a much conformal plan adapt to individual anatomy .
 moreover we have simplified the treatment delivery by suppress the imc field with the boost be deliver at much twice weekly .
 standard linear accelerator other than the saturne linear accelerator produce electron energy by step of 3 mev .
 this imply much effort to optimize the plan because of the use of mix electron energy or a much complex bolus 18 23 and 24 .
 dose distribution use the five simulator ct slice result in a gain in planning time compare with full ct-based dosimetry .
 this imply that there be not much variation of contour in the chest wall .
 a few patient however would benefit from a three-dimensional ct scan and a three-dimensional bolus 18 .
 a limitation of practice be that it be not possible to derive dose volume histograms of the heart and lung .
 however the dose distribution with electron be strongly dependent on the tps algorithm 27 .
 to date we have not use heterogeneity correction because of the inaccuracy of calculation model .
 efforts be make to get a conformal and homogeneous dose distribution between the skin and costal wall .
 however the position of the and isodose relative to the sternum and homolateral lung be routinely assess as warning to limit unnecessary heart and lung irradiation .
 the new technique result in well spare of the underlie normal tissue with the isodose about cm shallow in the heart and the isodose cm little deep in the lung .
 this measurement have be use only as relative measurement to compare the two treatment plan of the same patient .
 another important point be that the early tolerance be similar to that of previously report finding 19 .
 in the evaluation of the standard technique in a series of 118 patient treat in 1997 at the institut curie we report grade 1 early skin reaction in patient grade 2 in 75 patient and grade 3 in 13 patient .
 conclusion .
 this report describe an improvement in the standard postmastectomy electron beam technique of the chest wall .
 this new technique provide improve target homogeneity and conformality compare with the standard technique .
 this treatment be well tolerate with a low rate of early toxicity event .
 much study simply mock et and mock et segal et document the amount of exercise that cancer patient have attain or self-report in term of overall intervention adherence physical activity consequently they have tend to provide snapshot rather than detail information about the duration intensity and frequency of exercise achieve by patient treat for cancer .
 data present in this way do not capture the dynamic and continuous nature of exercise adherence .
 taking this point far although the overall adherence rate to exercise intervention might be high the number of participant who meet the weekly exercise framework goal across the intervention period may be low irwin et and irwin et .
 this omission from previous report be problematic for a number of reason it be difficult to know what type of exercise intervention be likely to provide benefit and it be not clear what level of exercise be likely to be achievable by woman recover from breast cancer at vary point during exercise intervention .
 low level of adherence can also lead to a diffusion of treatment since patient will not have be expose to the intervention as intend therefore compromise the internal validity of trial .
 moreover if high level of adherence be not achieve and a non-significant effect be report between treatment and control group it be difficult to know whether the non-significant effect be due to the poor adherence within the study or to an ineffective intervention .
 many previous trial in this field have involve home-based exercise intervention whereby cancer patient have be require to either self-report the amount of exercise they complete each week or return physical activity log or report activity via telephone recall carmack taylor et courneya et and courneya et jones et segal et .
 whilst there be a number of pragmatic and economic reason why researcher might opt for this type of approach when assess exercise adherence this do raise substantial issue about the potential for report bias thus much robust evidence be require .
 cancer patient be often require to endure long and difficult treatment regimen and the treatment type vary between patient it be possible therefore that some patient perform well in exercise intervention than other .
 in motivate and healthy cancer patient adherence to exercise intervention may be high relative to little motivate and unhealthy counterpart .
 adherence may also be relate to patient socio-economic status and current health behaviour review on physical activity intervention would support this suggestion and have identify advance age gender low educational level smoking be overweight and low social support as determinant of poor intervention session attendance .
 however this determinant be often derived from study involve apparently healthy participant and it remain unclear whether this same determinant apply to diseased patient such as woman treat for breast cancer .
 additional determinant of exercise in breast cancer patient include type of cancer treatment s time since cancer treatment and treatment side effect lymphoedema fatigue .
 this information have not be document by previous report therefore it be difficult to know which breast cancer patient be likely to be at risk of drop-out from exercise programme and require additional support to change exercise behaviour pattern .
 the sheffield exercise and breast cancer trial sherbert daley mutrie crank saxton and coleman daley et be a randomised control trial rct design to investigate the effect of a progressive eight-week supervise exercise therapy intervention upon qol and associate health outcome in woman treat for breast cancer .
 sherbert include an exercise-placebo intervention and a usual care group .
 to fully characterise treatment behaviour this study seek to provide detail descriptive datum regard the number of woman able to achieve different dose of aerobic exercise both in term of duration rating of perceive exertion rpe and heart rate hr over the course of the intervention .
 we also document compliance with the exercise-placebo intervention .
 adherence to exercise have be demonstrate to be a difficult challenge for healthy population department of health kearney et 1999 and be likely to be equally if not much difficult for patient who have complete treatment for cancer .
 therefore the pattern of adherence to the trial intervention be document for the purpose of inform future intervention involve this population .
 understanding the determinant of exercise after treatment for cancer be one of the critical step towards develop effective intervention therefore this study explore difference in intervention session adherence accord to patient route of trial recruitment socio-economic characteristic health behaviour cancer treatment regimen s and side effect from treatment .
 method trial design and patient recruitment .
 detailed information about sherbert have be report elsewhere daley et and daley et and will be describe briefly here .
 sedentary at the precontemplation contemplation or preparation stage of change for exercise soc prochaska and diclemente 1983 woman age 18 65 year who have complete treatment for early stage breast cancer with no-co-morbidities multiple sclerosis and arthritis that would prevent exercise participation be eligible for the study .
 participants be randomised use stratification for hormone therapy yes or no and chemotherapy treat yes or no to receive exercise therapy exercise-placebo or usual care for eight week .
 the south sheffield local research ethic committee provide ethical approval for the trial .
 trial outcome include qol depression fatigue physical activity aerobic fitness body mass index bmi and muscle function .
 the primary recruitment strategy be by postal invitation letter from patient treat oncologist or surgeon who identify potentially eligible patient from hospital record .
 secondary recruitment strategy involve medium television radio and newspaper advertisement presentation by member of the trial team to breast cancer nurse and trial awareness activity to cancer support group and word of mouth .
 exercise therapy .
 exercise therapy session take place on a one-to-one basis with an experience exercise researcher educate to master degree level and session last min .
 in line with previously publish guideline for cancer patient the intervention behavioural goal be for woman to attend three exercise session per week at the university trial centre and to work towards accumulate min of moderate intensity exercise on three day of the week in this session .
 participants be encourage to focus firstly on the frequency of exercise and then to focus on the duration and intensity of exercise session .
 whilst exercise therapy be guide by an intervention framework patient be encourage to exercise at an intensity that be comfortable for them within the intervention framework .
 to optimise adherence to the intervention participant be offer a range of aerobic exercise activity step cycling walk rowing and jogging .
 hr and rpe use borg 's 1997 6 scale be assess every 2 min during every exercise therapy session .
 the trial research assistant document this information in activity log .
 the exercise therapy session incorporate a variety of cognitive-behavioural technique consciousness raise decisional balance self-regulation and goal set for promote exercise behaviour .
 full-size image figure exercise therapy intervention framework .
 note exercise therapy session last a total of min and include a 5 min warm-up and cool down and exercise behaviour change counsel discussion .
 view within article .
 equal contact exercise-placebo .
 the placebo-exercise group also attend the trial centre three time per week over eight week and participate in one-to-one min session .
 however in contrast to the exercise therapy group in the placebo-exercise group every effort be make to keep hr little than approximately beat per minute so as to limit the aerobic stimulus provide by the intervention and rpe be maintain below 12 light intensity exercise .
 hr and rpe be record in activity log for every session and be assess every 5 min during this session .
 give the placebo group be not involve in aerobic exercise training it be not feel necessary to record hr every 2 min but that every 5 min during each session be sufficient .
 the type of activity include light body conditioning exercise flexibility and passive stretching .
 every effort be make to avoid communicate to patient the idea of stretch body conditioning as a placebo or control .
 no exercise behavioural change advice be give to this group and conversation within session be centre around topic of everyday live .
 the exercise-placebo condition allow for a much stringent test of aerobic exercise as a clinically meaningful treatment because it equate social contact between the group this be important since attention have some treatment effect .
 usual care .
 the usual care group be encourage to continue with life as normal and be invite to take part in exercise session at the centre after complete 24 week follow-up assessment .
 measure .
 at baseline all participant provide information concern medical history specific to cancer diagnosis use and type of hormonal therapy type s and length of cancer treatment presence of lymphoedema stage of disease and time since treatment .
 information concern frequency of exercise per week month soc for exercise prochaska and diclemente 1983 bmi percentage body fat bioelectrical impedance and aerobic fitness be also assess at baseline .
 aerobic fitness be measure use the sub-maximal 8 min single stage-walking test perform on a treadmill .
 the index of multiple deprivation imd office of the deputy prime minister opdm rank score be calculate for each participant based on residential postcode .
 this measure of deprivation encompass seven domain income employment health and disability education skill and training barrier to housing and service live environment and crime .
 adherence be define as the level of session participation achieve by participant .
 the dose in term of duration rpe and hr of exercise achieve by participant during each session be calculate by abstraction from the weekly physical activity log maintain by the trial research assistant .
 analyses .
 adherence rate be calculate include all woman randomised to both intervention regardless of compliance .
 the relationship between route of recruitment and participant characteristic and session adherence be examine use independent t-test analysis of variance or chi-squared analysis depending on the type of datum .
 since the intervention involve attend supervise session at a dedicate centre both group of participant be include in the determinant of session adherence analysis .
 participants be categorised accord to particular characteristic and this be use as the independent variable in the session adherence analysis see table 1 for description of the category use .
 table .
 mean session adherence to the trial intervention accord to recruitment route and select baseline socio-economic lifestyle and treatment regimen outcome .
 demographicsmean se a session adherence 24 b route of recruitment into trialc oncologist letter community advertisement age year 49 65 bmi under normal weight overweight obese smoking status smoker non-smoker stage of change for exercise precontemplation and contemplation preparation frequency of physical activity never three time per month once per week twice per week index of multiple deprivation quartile 1 little deprived quartile 2 quartile 3 quartile 4 much deprived missing treated with chemotherapy yes no treated with surgery mastectomy lumpectomy treated with radiotherapy yes no lymphoedema yes no full-size table .
 a refer to standard error .
 b includes both intervention group .
 c for analysis purpose we combine the recruitment route of cancer care support group breast cancer nurse medium advertisement and word of mouth into a single route of recruitment referred to as community advertisement .
 view within article .
 result participants and demographic .
 from the trial recruitment strategy eligible patient consent to participate in the trial and be randomised to either aerobic exercise therapy exercise-placebo or usual care .
 the prevalence characteristic of participant include in this report accord to socio-economic lifestyle and treatment regimen s outcome can be find in table the sample size be sufficient to estimate the prevalence of adherence or little with precision confidence interval .
 session adherence and dose of exercise achieve .
 descriptive information for hr rpe and duration of exercise for the aerobic exercise therapy and exercise-placebo group be provide in table 2 and table 3 respectively .
 additionally the percentage of woman achieve min 29 min or min of exercise therapy across the intervention period be detail in table adherence to the intervention be acceptable of the exercise therapy and of the exercise-placebo group respectively attend at least 17 24 session or much of the prescribe session .
 the percentage of woman achieve min of aerobic exercise per session increase over time range although a relatively large percentage be not able to achieve this target range or do not attend session range .
 table 2 describe the amount of exercise both in term of intensity hr and rpe and the duration of exercise achieve by exercise therapy participant .
 table .
 adherence to the exercise therapy intervention .
 exercise therapy session 1 3 week 1 4 6 week 2 7 9 week 3 12 week 4 13 15 week 5 16 18 week 6 19 21 week 7 22 24 week 8 hr mean sd rpe mean sd duration of session time participate in aerobic exercise mean sd lk and lk .
 session 3session 6session 9session 12session 15session 18session 21session 24 percentage achievingc 29 percentage who do not .
 full-size table .
 a data be based on aggregate score from this session across each week .
 b all aerobic exercise session last a total of min .
 session also include a warm-up and cool down as well as discussion about exercise behaviour change strategy .
 c percentage be based on the number of woman who attend or do not attend the final exercise therapy session each week session 3 6 9 12 15 18 21 and 24 .
 view within article .
 table .
 adherence to the exercise-placebo intervention .
 exercise-placebo asessions 1 3 week 1 4 6 week 2 7 9 week 3 12 week 4 13 15 week 5 16 18 week 6 19 21 week 7 22 24 week 8 hr mean sd rpe mean sd session 3session 6session 9session 12session 15session 18session 21session 24 percentage who do not .
 full-size table .
 a all placebo-sessions last min .
 b data be based on aggregate score from this session across each week .
 c percentage be based on the number of woman who do not attend final exercise placebo session each week session 3 6 9 12 15 18 21 and 24 .
 view within article .
 determinants of session adherence to the trial intervention .
 no significant difference at between route of recruitment socio-economic characteristic health behaviour type of treatment regimen or treatment side effect category and session adherence to the intervention be record .
 refer to table .
 discussion intervention adherence .
 it be clear that to complete a trial of this type the intervention s need to be acceptable to patient and attendance at intervention session be crucial for patient to acquire knowledge and skill regard the core element of the intervention .
 as be the case for all type of behavioural intervention the benefit of exercise can only be experience by cancer patient through regular participation .
 in this study woman treat for breast cancer achieve an acceptable level of overall aerobic exercise adherence and the percentage session adherence rate be comparable with other trial involve breast cancer and patient with other type of cancer courneya et and courneya et mock et segal et .
 of those who attend the exercise therapy intervention between and be able to achieve the public health recommend min of moderate intensity for any give week session see table 2 .
 as highlight early however many previous trial mock et and mock et segal et and segal et involve cancer patient have typically only report overall adherence rate to exercise intervention rather than the number of participant who adhere to the behavioural goal of the intervention and or the dose of exercise achieve by participant within session and across week this be problematic since it can mask important information and lead to inappropriate conclusion .
 use datum as an example of this the number of session complete by the aerobic exercise therapy group be high at over the amount of aerobic exercise achieve steadily increase imply the intervention be tolerate by and acceptable to participant .
 however on far inspection of the adherence datum this conclusion may be somewhat premature since the proportion of participant who do not attend session also increase over time with only five participant complete all 24 aerobic exercise therapy session as prescribe .
 taken together this finding indicate that with one-to-one support many woman treat for breast cancer be able to adapt relatively quickly to a progressive aerobic exercise intervention but many other will need even great amount of support than offer in this trial to facilitate exercise behaviour change .
 that say we be indeed mindful that supervise facility-based exercise programme may not be entirely appropriate for woman since many be likely to have family and employment responsibility that affect ability to attend exercise facility on a regular basis .
 we try to facilitate participant visit to the centre by offering participant the opportunity to exercise at various time of the day include evening and weekend and by provide dedicate parking .
 recent research report that breast cancer survivor be little confident they would exercise if they experience family responsibility .
 consequently it may be that much pragmatic dynamic and flexible approach medium telephone support mail physical activity prompt and so on may yield even high exercise adherence rate and exercise dose than record in this study .
 in research examine exercise-programming preference of woman treat for breast cancer the majority preferred to exercise at moderate intensity unsupervised at home and alone .
 with this in mind the low adherence to the exercise therapy session towards the end the intervention might be relate to the accumulative effect of have to make multiple visit 24 session to exercise facility and some participant may have find this difficult to sustain over time .
 the progressive intensity dose of exercise achieve by participant be in line with the trial protocol see 1 with participant on average exercising at moderate-hard intensity throughout the intervention .
 however there also appear to be a small discrepancy between hr and rpe datum in that hr datum indicate participant be exercise at moderate-hard intensity in accordance with the protocol whereas rpe datum suggest participant perceive they be exercise at light-moderate intensity exercise .
 as be usual in exercise study hr be use as the primary regulator of exercise intensity but datum do nevertheless highlight an important issue relate to the regulation of exercise intensity in cancer patient and the need to avoid relying solely on a single measure of intensity regulation .
 no previous trial have attempt to randomise breast cancer patient to an exercise based placebo condition .
 exercise-placebo condition have additional complication because patient be blind to group assignment .
 like any trial that include a placebo arm it be possible that participant become aware that they be not receive an active treatment or they become disillusion that they do not receive the alternative treatment that may have be on offer .
 we feel it be important to include an exercise-placebo condition to control for the potential attention social effect that might explain the trial finding .
 systematic review evidence of exercise intervention and cancer patient have identify the need for trial to include attention-control arm .
 session adherence rate to the exercise-placebo intervention suggest we be able to achieve an authentic alternative to the exercise therapy intervention indeed session adherence be marginally high for the exercise-placebo than for the exercise therapy intervention group .
 table 3 confirm that the hr of the exercise-placebo group on average remain little than beat per minute as per the intervention protocol .
 furthermore typical average rpe score across the intervention period range from to 11 this be consider to be within the low-intensity exercise range far support the minimal aerobic content of the exercise-placebo intervention .
 nevertheless rpe score in the exercise-placebo be high than expect particularly give that participant corresponding hr score be within the low-intensity range .
 although exercise-placebo participant aerobic output be relatively low the body conditioning exercise include in this intervention involve anaerobic stimulus consequently rpe score might reflect this .
 determinants of exercise session adherence .
 the apparently high overall session adherence rate couple with the lack of any significant finding in the determinant of session adherence analysis suggest that woman treat for breast cancer be keen to participate in exercise intervention programme when give opportunity and support to do so .
 finding be in contrast to other who have find that predictor of exercise adherence in colorectal cancer survivor include soc for exercise employment status and treatment protocol .
 we rule out the possibility that the lack of significant difference between category of participant for session adherence be the result of the sample be rather homogeneous .
 we focus effort towards understanding socio-demographic health behaviour and treatment factor as likely determinant of exercise behaviour in this population and it may be that other psycho-cognitive factor play a much decisive role regard this issue .
 following on study have find association between social cognitive variable attitude perception of control intention and health behaviour in breast cancer patient it might be that this variable prove to be well indicator of exercise adherence than those use here .
 future research should endeavour to examine this much precisely .
 limitation and strength .
 the sample size be relatively modest and large study may be well able to provide much precise estimate regard the determinant of exercise adherence in this population .
 participants in sherbert be predominately of white ethnic origin and therefore finding should be generalised to woman of other ethnicity treat for breast cancer with some caution .
 the supervise nature of both intervention mean it be possible to systematically record hr and rpe as well as the duration of exercise this provide us with the opportunity to examine in detail the precise intensity and dose of exercise achieve by participant during the intervention and this be an important strength over previous trial .
 achieving adequate adherence be critical when examine the efficacy of an intervention .
 we obtain good session adherence indicate that in the context of an rct a supervise aerobic exercise therapy intervention be acceptable to woman treat for breast cancer .
 research be still require to tease out all the potential determinant of exercise in this population .
 designing intervention to enhance regular exercise remain a challenge proposition .
 we hope this finding can be use in the planning of future exercise intervention trial involve breast cancer patient .
 acknowledgement .
 we would like to thank the patient who agree to participate in the trial .
 we would also like to thank professor malcolm reed and stan kohlhardt for assistance with patient recruitment and sue green for assistance with the intervention .
 source of funding .
 this study be support through grant from cancer research uk .
 a well understanding of the underlie molecular and cellular mechanism be crucial for the development of effective treatment for metastatic breast cancer .
 metastasis be a multi-step process which mediate the migration of cancer cell from the primary site to the distant site .
 adhesion of circulate cancer cell to endothelium and the subsequent trans-endothelial migration be critical step in this process .
 therefore identify the molecule which mediate cancer cell endothelial cell interaction be necessary for us to design specific treatment to prevent breast cancer metastasis .
 lox-1 a receptor for oxidized low-density lipoprotein oxldl be first identify as a scavenger receptor for binding and uptake of oxldl in endothelial cell .
 recently lox-1 have be show to play important role in pro-inflammatory signaling and atherogenesis .
 it be now well accept that there be a strong link between chronic inflammation and cancer progression and metastasis .
 interestingly the expression of lox-1 can be regulate by pro-inflammatory mediator .
 tnf- one of the main mediator of inflammation have be link to many aspect of tumorigenesis include metastasis .
 give the emerge role of lox-1 in inflammation we would like to test the hypothesis that up-regulation of lox-1 expression by tnf- in endothelial cell promote breast cancer metastasis .
 in the present study we examine the role of lox-1 in breast cancer cell endothelial cell interaction .
 material and .
 antibody and reagent .
 tnf- goat and mouse anti-human lox-1 antibody normal goat igg recombinant human p-selectin and recombinant human lox-1 be obtain from rd system minneapolis mn .
 goat lox-1 antibody be raise use recombinant human lectin-like oxidized low density lipoprotein receptor 1 extracellular domain .
 this antibody be select for ability to block receptor ligand interaction by the manufacturer .
 mouse monoclonal antibody be select for ability to recognize human lox-1 in direct elisa and western blot .
 calcein am be order from invitrogen carlsbad .
 egm-2 be from cambrex east rutherford nj .
 rpmi be from invitrogen .
 cell culture .
 human lung microvascular endothelial cell hlmvecs be obtain from cambrex and grow in egm-2 supplement with fetal bovine serum fbs .
 hlmvecs from passage 4 or 5 be use in the experiment .
 mda-mb-231 cell be obtain from atcc and maintain in culture medium rpmi contain fetal bovine serum 2 mm l-glutamine .
 cell be maintain in an incubator at 37 c in co2 and air .
 immunoblotting .
 immunoblotting be perform as describe by us previously .
 lox-1 antibody be use at dilution .
 densitometry analysis be carry out use the quantity one program biorad hercules .
 cell surface elisa .
 the expression of lox-1 on cell surface be measure by the cell surface enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay elisa as describe by us previously .
 cell be incubate with mouse monoclonal antibody against lox-1 follow by hrp-conjugated goat anti-mouse igg .
 peroxidase activity be detect use a tetramethylbenzidine substrate solution tmb pierce rockford il and quantify by read the plate on a spectrophotometric microplate reader at nm .
 monolayers stain only with a secondary antibody be use as the blank .
 all assay be do with triplicate sample and repeat three time .
 adhesion assay .
 adhesion assay be perform as describe by us previously .
 briefly hlmvecs be seed and grow in gelatin-coated 24 well plate until confluent .
 mda-mb-231 cell be disperse in trypsin solution wash in serum free rpmi then incubate with 5 m calcein am molecular probes for min at 37 calcein am-labeled mda-mb-231 cell be then add to the confluent endothelial monolayer at cell well and incubate at 37 c for 2 h .
 cell be then wash extensively with pbs to remove float cancer cell .
 attached cancer cell be observe under a fluorescent microscope and count from 4 random field of magnification for each triplicate sample .
 trans-endothelial migration assay .
 the trans-migration assay be perform as describe by lee et previously .
 hlmvecs be seed and grow in 24 well transwell insert with pore size of 8 m corning ny until confluent .
 calcein am-labeled mda-mb-231 cell be add to the apical chamber .
 after incubation for 6 h non-migrating cell on the upper face of the membrane be scrape gently with cotton swab .
 migrating cell on the low face of the membrane be count under a fluorescent microscope from 4 random field of magnification for each triplicate sample .
 statistic .
 all value be express as mean sem .
 data be analyzed by one-way analysis of variance anova follow by bonferroni test .
 a p value be consider significant .
 .
 tnf- induce lox-1 expression in human lung microvascular endothelial cell .
 tnf- be a potent pro-metastatic mediator .
 to explore the role of lox-1 in breast cancer cell endothelial cell interaction we first examine the regulation of lox-1 expression by tnf- in human lung microvascular endothelial cell .
 in study tnf- stimulate lox-1 expression in a dose and time-dependent manner .
 full-size image 39k tnf--induced lox-1 expression in human lung microvascular endothelial cell .
 dose response a and time course b of tnf--induced lox-1 expression in hlmvecs be assess by immunoblotting .
 the same membrane be strip and blot with anti-actin antibody .
 representative blot and bar graph show the change of lox-1 expression after tnf- treatment .
 result show be representative of three independent experiment .
 data be present as mean sem .
 asterisk indicate a value significantly different from that of control cell no treatment p .
 view within article .
 tnf- stimulate lox-1 surface expression in human lung microvascular endothelial cell .
 lox-1 be a lectin-like type ii membrane protein .
 cell surface exposure of lox-1 be require for function .
 to confirm that tnf- treatment also lead to an increase of surface expression of lox-1 on the plasma membrane we perform the cell-based elisa to specifically examine lox-1 on the cell surface .
 indeed tnf--stimulated cell surface expression of lox-1 correlated with tnf--induced lox-1 expression in hlmvecs .
 full-size image 15k tnf- stimulate lox-1 surface expression in hlmvecs .
 hlmvecs be treat with tnf- as indicate .
 dose- a and time- b dependent lox-1 surface expression be quantify by a cell surface elisa follow tnf- treatment as describe in section data be present as mean sem .
 asterisk indicate a value significantly different from that of control cell no treatment p .
 view within article .
 lox-1-dependent adhesion and trans-endothelial migration tem of mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell .
 tnf- be know to promote tumor cell adhesion to endothelial cell .
 we next examine the potential involvement of lox-1 in tnf--induced breast cancer cell endothelial cell interaction .
 tnf--induced adhesion of mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell to hlmvecs and the subsequent tem be markedly decrease in the presence of either a lox-1 block antibody or a lox-1 recombinant protein whereas the control igg or a recombinant p-selectin protein have no significant effect on tnf-induced cancer cell adhesion and tem .
 full-size image 68k inhibition of mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell adhesion and trans-endothelial migration by a lox-1 block antibody .
 hlmvecs be stimulate with tnf- ng ml 16 h .
 calcein am-labeled mda-mb-231 cell be then add to hlmvecs con without any treatment tnf tnf--treated hlmvecs nigg tnf tnf--treated hlmvecs in the presence of g ml normal igg lox-1ab tnf tnf--treated hlmvecs in the presence of g ml lox-1 antibody and incubate for 2 h for the adhesion assay or 6 h for the tem assay .
 representative image a show cancer cell adhesion to endothelial cell .
 bar graph show bind b or migrate c mda-mb-231 cell assess as describe in section data be present as mean sem .
 asterisk indicate a value significantly different from that of cell treat with tnf- alone p .
 view within article .
 full-size image 62k inhibition of mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell adhesion and trans-endothelial migration by a recombinant lox-1 protein .
 hlmvecs be stimulate with tnf- ng ml 16 h .
 calcein am-labeled mda-mb-231 cell be then add to hlmvecs con without any treatment tnf tnf--treated hlmvecs rps tnf tnf--treated hlmvecs in the presence of g ml recombinant human p-selectin rlox-1 tnf tnf--treated hlmvecs in the presence of g ml recombinant human lox-1 and incubate for 2 h for the adhesion assay or 6 h for the tem assay .
 representative image a show cancer cell adhesion to endothelial cell .
 bar graph show bind b or migrate c mda-mb-231 cell assess as describe in section data be present as mean sem .
 asterisk indicate a value significantly different from that of cell treat with tnf- alone p .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 in an in vitro adhesion assay leukocyte be able to bind to surface-coated lox-1 under physiological shear stress and the binding be specifically block by a lox-1 antibody indicate that lox-1 itself can support leukocyte adhesion .
 we demonstrate that breast cancer cell adhesion to endothelial cell and the subsequent trans-endothelial migration be inhibit by both the lox-1 block antibody and the recombinant lox-1 protein suggest that lox-1 may act as an adhesion molecule to mediate cancer cell endothelial cell interaction .
 therefore breast cancer cell may express specific surface molecule that bind to endothelial lox-1 .
 further study be warrant to identify the lox-1 ligand express in breast cancer cell .
 circulating cancer cell and leukocyte have be suggest to share the same family of adhesion molecule for initial interaction with the vasculature selectins for roll and early attachment and vcam-1 or icam-1 for firm adhesion .
 interestingly in study tnf--induced adhesion of mda-mb-231 cell to endothelial cell be not completely inhibit by the lox-1 block antibody or the recombinant lox-1 protein suggest the involvement of other adhesion molecule .
 the link between chronic inflammation and cancer be well establish .
 however the underlie molecular mechanism be not fully understand .
 atherosclerosis be consider a type of chronic inflammation .
 the early recruitment of monocyte into atherosclerotic lesion require activation of endothelial cell and increase endothelial adhesiveness .
 lox-1 be an oxldl scavenger receptor primarily express in endothelial cell .
 there be accumulate evidence suggest that up-regulation of lox-1 expression be associate with pro-atherogenic condition such as hypertension hyperlipidemia and diabetes .
 pro-inflammatory mediator and oxldl have also be show to up-regulate lox-1 expression in vitro .
 thus finding that lox-1 regulate breast cancer cell endothelial cell interaction provide another molecular link between inflammation and metastasis .
 the potential function of lox-1 in metastasis be much profound than the adhesive property .
 indeed lox-1 have be report to play diverse role in pro-inflammatory signaling and endothelial dysfunction .
 binding of oxldl to lox-1 be able to reduce intracellular nitric oxide concentration and increase superoxide production in endothelial cell .
 lox-1 activation be associate with increase production of pro-metastatic mediator tnf- and il-1 .
 activation of lox-1 and the resultant oxidant and production have be link to pro-apoptotic signaling in endothelial cell .
 furthermore lox-1-dependent activation of pkc have be show to stimulate the expression of matrix metalloproteinase mmp .
 mmp be recognize as critical player in metastasis .
 since extravasation and intravasation of cancer cell be critical step in metastasis block cancer cell endothelial cell interaction be an effective approach to prevent and treat metastatic cancer .
 study suggest that lox-1 pathway may be use as a novel drug target against breast cancer metastasis .
 pink ribbon symbolize breast cancer and event to raise money for breast cancer research be a ubiquitous part of the cultural landscape and represent a dramatic departure from the stigma secrecy and blame previously attach to breast cancer king leopold 1999 plotkin 1996 and sontag 1979 .
 instead of succumb to a secret and shameful disease woman with breast cancer today be openly honored as survivor .
 intuitively it make sense that the cultural image of breast cancer will shape the experience of woman with the disease .
 in fact the breast cancer culture imply that woman with the disease readily embrace the identity of survivor .
 however while study have examine the change cultural representation of breast cancer black 1995 brown et fosket et king klawiter 1999 leopold 1999 patterson 1987 sontag 1979 and thorne and murray researcher have not empirically consider how the new survivor identity shape the disease experience of woman with breast cancer .
 in this article i consider the extent to which woman embrace the survivor identity follow breast cancer treatment .
 i begin with an overview of the dominant representation of breast cancer survivor and the criticism of this representation .
 i then summarize two complementary approach for understanding how construction of breast cancer affect woman .
 the first approach posit that survivorship be a tool that woman can use to frame disease experience swidler 1986 and swidler .
 according to the second approach survivorship be craftwork whereby woman consciously construct life and the meaning of cancer .
 after describe research method i provide datum from in-depth interview with 39 woman in the united state who recently complete treatment for breast cancer .
 in the datum present here a number of woman do embrace the survivor identity .
 other woman craft new meaning of survivorship .
 additionally some woman explicitly reject the label for fail to account for the possibility of recurrence for be overly heroic or for be too public of an identity .
 i discuss the implication of this finding for woman with breast cancer and for the sociology of health and illness .
 the breast cancer survivor the dominant image of the survivor .
 the term survivor enter cancer discourse in 1985 when fitzhugh mullan describe cancer experience in a new england journal of medicine article seasons of survival kolata and mullan 1985 .
 mullan later establish the national coalition for cancer survivorship nccs which work to shift the perception of cancer patient from victim to survivor and formally define a survivor from the time of diagnosis and for the balance of life nccs 1995 .
 the word survivor be arguably much often associate with breast cancer .
 the breast cancer survivor be much often represent as triumphant happy healthy and feminine batt 1994 and king .
 she triumph over breast cancer through medical treatment and now hold a place of honor in the cancer world ehrenreich and klawiter 1999 .
 this image be consistent with the positive tone characteristic of early anti-cancer campaign in the united state batt 1994 and patterson 1987 .
 it also reflect the history of the breast cancer movement and subsequent corporate interest in breast cancer .
 during the and the burgeon breast cancer movement consist of a large and diverse group of woman include feminist seek radical change and woman who simply want greater medical investment in a disease that devastate so many .
 the movement ultimately secure widespread support by portray breast cancer patient and survivor as deserving mother wife and citizen and by work within medicine to demand great research on cancer treatment and a medical cure for breast cancer kaufert 1998 and king .
 in short the goal be reform not revolution and the movement become pro-woman but not pro-feminism ehrenreich and king .
 within this framework the breast cancer survivor represent the power of medicine to beat breast cancer and return woman to fulfil life .
 federal funding for breast cancer research jump from 155 million dollar in 1991 to million by 1993 an influx of money not seen by any other cancer king and stabiner 1997 .
 breast cancer continue to be portray as a medicalized disease that be approach with both fear and optimism .
 breast cancer as the darling cause survivor take center stage .
 the image of the breast cancer patient as feminine deserving and devoted to a medical cure make breast cancer the perfect charity .
 by associate product with breast cancer fundraising cause relate marketing company build the reputation of a brand secure brand loyalty and differentiate the brand without have to cut price or be innovative .
 company such as yoplait ford and countless other adopt breast cancer as cause which lead to an influx of symbol of breast cancer into the market ehrenreich and king .
 the number of product and corporation pledge contribution to breast cancer grow so large that the grassroots organization breast cancer action launch the think before you pink campaign in .
 think before you pink urge consumer to learn how much or how little money from a purchase go to breast cancer cause breast cancer action king .
 while breast cancer gain corporate and federal support breast cancer survivor take center stage literally and figuratively at breast cancer run and walk around the country .
 at the forefront of physical activity fundraisers be the susan komen race for the cure .
 the race for the cure which be a 5 km run walk to raise fund and awareness of breast cancer first take place in dallas texas in 1983 .
 by the race have expand to over location in the united state and abroad with well over one million participant each year .
 at each race survivor don pink hat and be honored in special ceremony such as the survivor parade kaiser king and klawiter 1999 .
 the race 's message be that advance in treatment ensure that a cancer detect early will be cure .
 according to klawiter 1999 111 survivor at the race be honored for courage in fight breast cancer and for willingness to demonstrate to other woman through rejection of the cultural code of silence and invisibility that breast cancer be not shameful that it be survivable and that it be neither disfigure nor defeminizing .
 notably mastectomy scar and disfigure body be hide at the race .
 prostheses maker and cosmetic company at the race and at other breast cancer walk encourage woman to project an image of wholeness and femininity .
 alternative image and criticism of survivorship .
 alternative construction of life after breast cancer co-exist with the dominant image of survivorship .
 for example some woman have reject the title of survivor in favor of thrivers or breast cancer other have choose not to conceal the effect of cancer .
 the artist and model matuschka bare mastectomy scar on a 1993 cover of the new york time magazine next to the caption you look away anymore .
 according to matuschka 1993 162 if we keep quiet about what cancer do to woman 's body if we refuse to accept woman 's body in whatever condition they be in we be do a disservice to womankind .
 audre lorde choose not to wear a prosthesis follow mastectomy and battle for right to define and present body in own way .
 first-hand account of breast cancer such as those by butler and rosenblum lorde and william 1993 serve as a place for woman to express pain and fear and to disclose the reality of breast cancer kaufert 1998 leopold 1999 and potts .
 alternative to the dominant survivor image exist on an organizational level as well .
 the bay area women and cancer walk show woman 's body follow mastectomy without prostheses use the color black instead of pink and welcome discussion of death and display of anger .
 the toxic tour of the cancer industry attack the industry that produce carcinogen and embrace the term cancer victim to emphasize that woman get cancer because of larger social force .
 this organization like mainstream counterpart want to inform woman and raise awareness of breast cancer .
 however on the one hand be inform and empower mean question the status quo and show the dark side of cancer .
 on the other hand be inform and raise awareness mean educate woman about screening encourage fundraising for research be joyful and display a highly feminized intact body batt 1994 and king .
 the dominant breast cancer image have also be directly criticize .
 hozman 39 herself a breast cancer survivor criticize the upbeat grateful image of breast cancer survivor and the failure to mention the indigestible image of cancer such as nonanesthetized injection at the tumor site nipple inflamed from radiation .
 barbara ehrenreich rail against the breast cancer culture of survivorship and pink kitsch after own bout with the disease .
 she criticize the breast cancer culture for the abundance of childlike product teddy bears market for breast cancer the absence of feminism in the mainstream breast cancer culture and relentless emphasis on cheerful representation of breast cancer that effectively silence other emotion such as anger and grief .
 survivorship have be criticize for encourage woman to conceal the physical effect of cancer .
 while stigmatize person have long work to pass unnoticed in society survivor be simultaneously encourage to proclaim status via pink t-shirts and ribbon and disguise the true nature of body follow treatment via clothing reconstruction and prostheses batt 1994 and thomas-maclean .
 by enact this reverse pass survivor become the mirror body attempt to recreate themselves in the image of healthy body .
 moreover by disguise suffering survivor experience what frank 1995 call the monadic bodyaspects of experience be solitary and separate from a sisterhood of other survivor .
 women who work to project an image of perfect health follow cancer pay an emotional and monetary price for pretend to be well and whole .
 critics also contend that survivorship fail to capture the uncertainty inherent in the cancer experience .
 the language of survivorshipbeat conquer win the battleis consistent with an acute model of illness .
 however cancer be typically not experience as an acute episode of disease fosket frank little et and sontag 1979 .
 rather follow treatment patient often struggle with an inability to define themselves as healthy or as ill frank and rosenbaum and roos endure ongoing screening and medication and struggle with fear of recurrence .
 in breast cancer memoir william 1993 want to avoid be yet another cancer patient who publicly declare herself a survivor only to later die of the disease .
 rather than befall that irony she choose to see cancer as with her in one form or another for forever .
 survivorship 's story of diagnosis treatment and recovery make it a restitution narrative .
 the restitution narrative be powerful because it celebrate the heroism of medicine and the individual and support the optimism of oncology clarke 1999 and good et .
 like person with disability who be laud for exceptional accomplishment the super-crip couser 1997 the image of breast cancer survivor be one of exceptional health and strength in the face of adversity .
 while success story may be inspiring they may also be alienate mayer 1993 and potts particularly to those who experience ongoing effect of cancer have a poor prognosis or ultimately die from the disease batt 1994 ehrenreich and frank 1995 .
 in analysis of the narrative content and form of breast cancer survivor story of cancer thomas-maclean find element of the restitution narrative as well as element of frank 's chaos narrative a story of never end problem and quest narrative a story of change .
 result indicate the story of survivorship may not work for many people .
 in short the meaning of survivorship have be harshly criticize particularly within first-hand account of breast cancer .
 despite this critique researcher have not consider how the typical breast cancer patient view survivorship .
 such research would contribute to understanding of the process of adjustment follow cancer and would augment the sociology of health and illness in two key way .
 first although the sociology of health and illness have examine the impact of cultural meaning of disease for the illness experience bury charmaz 1991 charmaz 1999 conrad 1987 corbin and strauss 1987 karp 1992 karp 1996 and kleinman 1988 this research have overwhelmingly focused on the effect of stigmatize negative disease meaning alonzo and reynolds 1995 fife and wright goffman 1963 link and phelan 1999 and link and phelan .
 thus we know little about the illness experience under overtly positive cultural meaning .
 intuitively positive meaning should facilitate healthy adjustment by produce feeling of pride and social worth .
 however the criticism of survivorship shed doubt on the benefit of the survivor identity .
 thus prior to consider possible psychological benefit of the survivor identity qualitative research be need to establish whether woman embrace this identity .
 second follow the tradition of parsons 1951 we have learn a great deal about entry into the sick role but have pay little attention to recovery from illness .
 in particular cancer patient who live with the possibility of recurrence represent a blurring of the boundary between sickness recovery and health conrad 1987 and frank .
 this work attempt to clarify woman 's relationship to the survivor identity .
 next i discuss two theoretical framework for conceptualize woman 's relationship to survivorship .
 survivorship as a cultural tool and survivorship as craftwork .
 the cultural sociology of and provide a framework for conceptualize how the meaning of survivorship impact woman with breast cancer .
 according to swidler individual possess knowledge of a variety of cultural meaning .
 in talk of love swidler be interested in how people use some cultural material while reject other especially as they attempt to retool life follow a major life event or transition .
 the identity of breast cancer survivor can be conceive of as a tool that woman use to become a certain kind of person .
 give the disfigurement disruption and ontological insecurity bring by cancer mathieson and stam 1995 and nelson 1996 it make sense that woman would use survivorship to organize the self and life .
 furthermore accord to swidler 73 becoming a certain kind of person be learn practiced and sustain through culture .
 for the woman with breast cancer culture provide clear guideline for what it mean to be a survivor as well as opportunity breast cancer walk to practice be a survivor .
 however if woman question or reject survivorship it be unclear what alternative meaning they embrace give that other image of breast cancer be largely negative or little available .
 if survivorship be deem an inadequate cultural tool woman may work to construct alternative meaning in other word they may enact survivorship as craftwork .
 according to frank 251 survivorship as craftwork be the embody exacting skill of building something or make something work in a precise way .
 much importantly craftwork require practice and the self-conscious construction of one 's life .
 frank be primarily interested in how individual construct the role of service for other follow cancer .
 i extend notion of craftwork to include the self-conscious craft of the meaning of survivorship .
 together swidler 's and frank 's conception of cultural tool and craftwork provide a conceptual framework for understanding how individual may embrace or reject survivorship or actively construct meaning follow cancer .
 thus in this article i consider two question .
 first do woman embrace the survivor identity as a way to make sense of life follow cancer and second to what extent do woman craft new meaning for experience method .
 data come from in-depth interview conduct between and with 39 woman who complete treatment for breast cancer 3 18 month prior to the interview .
 treatment be define as surgery chemotherapy or radiation .
 the sample include individual undergo adjuvant treatment such as those take tamoxifen .
 one advantage of this sample be that the woman be interview within 18 month of treatment whereas sample use in much of the survivorship literature include individual of many different survival duration week and year .
 respondents be referred to the study by a cancer support center in a small city and through personal referral .
 the mean age of the sample be 52 the woman range from 28 to 87 year of age .
 twenty-eight of the woman receive chemotherapy .
 sixteen woman have a lumpectomy to remove cancer .
 the remain 23 woman undergo either a unilateral or bilateral mastectomy .
 of the 39 woman interview 36 be caucasian all have at least a high school degree or general education diploma high school equivalent and 16 have at least a bachelor 's degree .
 twenty-three of the woman in the sample be currently employ .
 two woman be homemakers and eight woman be retire .
 the remain six woman in the sample be unemployed but hope to return to work in the future .
 the sample be largely middle class .
 class determination be based upon education occupation and the author 's observation of many of home during the interview .
 three woman be unusual in that they be employ in blue collar job assembly line worker .
 because the sample be largely white and middle class it represent woman much likely to identify with the survivor culture .
 a flexible interview guide allow respondent to talk freely about cancer experience include diagnosis treatment and life after treatment .
 two question assess respondent view towards survivorship .
 first each woman be ask if she referred to herself as a survivor .
 each woman be also ask what the word survivor mean to .
 question about survivorship be pose near the end of the interview so woman talk about survivorship prior to direct question about survivorship .
 interviews last on average minute .
 each woman be pay for participate in the interview .
 interviews be audio-recorded transcribe and enter into scientific software development 1997 .
 each woman be assign a pseudonym by the author .
 analysis combine both deductive and inductive strategy .
 first each transcript and corresponding field note be read in entirety to gain a sense of the respondent 's experience as a whole .
 preliminary working with the datum utilize ground theory method which consist of a set of flexible principle for construct theory from an analysis of rich datum charmaz glaser and strauss 1965 and glaser and strauss 1967 .
 after become familiar with the datum a much deductive strategy be adopt .
 first datum relate to the identity of a cancer survivor be code by apply the code survivor to any text in which the respondent use the word survivor as well as to response to the question do you refer to yourself as a cancer survivor and what do the term survivor mean to you coded datum be extract from each interview to create a complete picture of each woman 's view of survivorship and to examine pattern across woman .
 initially each woman transcript be code into one of two categoriesthose who identify as survivor and those who do not .
 among those who reject survivorship three distinct reason for reject the identity quickly emerge in the datum .
 additional work with the datum reveal that among the woman who identify as survivor some enthusiastically embrace the dominant meaning of survivorship and other express ambivalence towards survivorship .
 deeper analysis of the latter group reveal that they often modify the meaning of survivorship .
 thus in discussion of woman who accept survivorship i distinguish woman who embrace survivorship and those who identify as survivor but alter the meaning of survivorship .
 result accepting the survivor identity .
 rarely do woman spontaneously refer to themselves as survivor .
 instead the title of survivor be typically use to describe other .
 for example a woman might say aunt be a five-year survivor .
 when ask do you refer to yourself as a survivor twenty woman say yes .
 even among the woman who identify as survivor the meaning of the survivor identity vary .
 some woman clearly embrace the dominant meaning of survivorship .
 mary age 57 year be one such woman .
 when ask if she referred to herself as a cancer survivor mary reply with confidence and without hesitation i'm a survivor .
 she explain that be a survivor mean you've beat it .
 you be strong you win the battle .
 it 's not hard to imagine mary at a breast cancer fundraising event don a pink survivor hat to proudly voluntarily and publicly mark herself as a breast cancer survivor visually embody an identity not otherwise apparent klawiter 1999 111 .
 consistent with swidler 's contention that use of culture be much obvious during unsettled period of life mary 's new cultural skill be exaggerate .
 not only do she proudly declare herself a survivor but she also describe the breast cancer pin and ribbon she own .
 she exhibit a careful use of culture by referencing the definition of survivorship create by the national cancer survivor coalitionyou be a survivor from the day you be diagnose .
 other woman in the sample draw much selectively from the survivor discourse .
 yolanda age 37 year see herself as a survivor because she be strong enough to make it through the experience .
 she say it 's a test really of how strong you be and for me how strong faith be .
 a respondent name kim age 56 year feel proud to be a survivor during the breast cancer walk she attend each year .
 according to kim i think i be proud that i survive it .
 i didn't fall apart .
 i find an inner strength .
 she explain there be part of me that be go but there be something else that come the surgeon might have take a boob but he give me a different personality something have happen to quiet little kim .
 by say she find an inner strength kim 's story fit the quest narrativecancer bring out new aspect of herself make a well person than she be before frank 1995 and thomas-maclean .
 lisa age 55 year say that she absolutely identify herself as a survivor .
 like the woman quote above she feel pride for have the strength to make it through treatment and proudly wear pink symbol of breast cancer .
 however lisa poignantly describe ongoing fear of ache and pain i have i think hmm wonder what this be .
 i feel like an unattached buoy in a large body of water because when you're in chemo you feel like something be kill it but now i'm on own .
 i'm out there and i take tamoxifen because it will be no good for me so i feel a little bit like a buoy in rough water .
 i feel like i get throw around a little bit by the wave of life you know and it 's scary for me that way .
 the notion of beat cancer and fear that cancer linger be contradictory .
 how be lisa able to identify as a survivor while believe that cancer may be lurk behind every ache and pain one possibility be that lisa have not thoroughly examine use of culture and contradiction in view go unnoticed .
 rather lisa use a very specific definition of survivorship that allow for linger fear .
 lisa 's definition entail see cancer as an ongoing survivorship mean i have win a huge battle in a war that will last the rest of life .
 lisa have adopt a definition of survivorship that acknowledge successful treatment and fear of recurrence .
 brooke 's construction of survivorship be far remove from the dominant meaning .
 brooke age 53 year initially see survivorship as empower and feel part of a great sorority of people .
 feeling develop in part from watch the character samantha from sex in the city successfully undergo treatment for breast cancer .
 however brooke 's identification with survivorship fade as she allow herself to notice breast cancer death around such as an obituary she read on the morning of interview .
 brooke 's confidence in ability to survive cancer have be shake .
 however she craft new meaning around survivorship that enable to retain the survivor identity .
 she explain what be a survivor mean to come from a really tough family and i've be a survivor long before i become a cancer survivor .
 i have a really screw up mother i'm estrange from .
 i do reconnect with her while i have treatment and it be awful so i'm no long communicate with .
 but one of the thing i've think about it 's not so much be a cancer survivor it 's be a survivor in general .
 i mean cancer be just one much thing i add to the listso i don't dwell on the term cancer survivor .
 i do much before but now this be just one much notch on the survival emphasis add because brooke alter the meaning of survivorship to fit personal biography and self-conceptions as someone who have overcome difficulty survivorship retain significance for .
 like brooke a 39-year-old name lauren also fear a recurrence of breast mean the one thing i just stand be when people say oh so you're cure like people don't get it there be no cure .
 if i die of a heart attack at 75 i'll know i be cure of breast cancer .
 but the rest of life be a question mark .
 you never know if it will come back .
 koocher and o'malley labeled the threat of cancer recurrence the damocles syndrome after the character from greek mythology who be seat beneath a sword suspend by a single hair .
 lauren life with cancer as an ever-present feature of life .
 nonetheless she see herself as a survivor .
 definition of survivorship center on have do good to fight think it just mean i do all the treatment i do and i've done everything i can to keep it from come back and i'm go to live life like whatever happen be go to happen but i don't walk around say it 's not go to come back .
 i'm afraid if i let guard down too much that if it do come back i'll be totally throw for a loop .
 so i always leave like a little thing in mind that it come back someday .
 this datum demonstrate that the group of woman who identify as survivor include woman who feel they have beat the disease as well as other who view cancer as a permanent feature of life .
 for the late group dominant notion of survival be incongruent with belief that medicine guarantee the permanent removal of cancerous cell from the body .
 thus they alter the meaning of survivorship to account for the possibility of recurrence .
 next i turn to the woman who do not identify as survivor .
 the fear of recurrence also weigh heavily on this woman .
 however rather than accept the survivor title and modify it to fit fear the woman below do not accept the survivor identity .
 in addition i present datum for two additional reason for reject survivorshipnot be sick enough and not want to be part of the survivor group .
 distancing self from survivorship .
 rejecting due to the fear of recurrencei struggle with feeling about survivorship you know .
 and that 's always a question i think with other woman i've speak to .
 it 's like well wait a minute what i be do i have cancer have i have cancer am i survivor am i warrior what be i i don't have a really good answer for that technically .
 supposedly the day you're diagnose you can call yourself a survivor .
 it feel really awkward somehow because i guess i still feel like i'm in the battle .
 sophia age 43 year quote above be aware of the available cultural and metaphoric definition .
 however sophia be among the 19 woman in this sample who do not identify as a survivor .
 many of this woman believe the survivor identity be too incongruent with the uncertainty they keenly feel .
 whereas the first group of woman keep the survivor title but tailor meaning to view this woman not accept the identity .
 for example kathleen age 45 year poignantly describe how the possibility of recurrence make the term survivor don't like that term because i don't know if i have beat it i'm not sure have i really survive what i survive for a whole few month i don't know .
 i guess i don't think of it that way becauseif you're in a plane crash and you survive you survive the plane crash .
 you're not gonna get back in the plane and crash again .
 but i have cancer i make it through treatment it be go for now .
 but that doesn't mean it 's not gonna come back .
 because of the possibility that she crash again kathleen instead refer to herself as cancer free for now a phrase which well capture the tentative nature of health .
 ann age 45 year also view cancer as linger .
 when ask if she identify herself as a survivor ann reply no i don't like that word at all .
 she explain surviving mean you're never go to have a problem again and i think that 's not maybe practical .
 i think survive cancer mean you're die at of something else .
 ultimately ann choose to classify herself in accordance with the reality of experience .
 she say i phrase it as i be treat for breast cancer .
 i figure that 's really fact that 's what i know to be true .
 in the quote below tara age 36 year explain reluctance to identify as a survivor by highlight the contrast between the exacting medicalized period of diagnosis and treatment and the uncertain vague period follow want to be positive at the end of this and say yes i'm gonna beat it and i'm gonna be a survivor for life .
 but there be time that you just wonder .
 you know i get online and check and there be not any conclusive evidence out there on what risk be for recurrence and i want somebody to tell me you be a great candidate for not recur and nobody have tell me that .
 i'm look for that and oncologist he 's like i'm not go there with you you know there be so much definition to the cancer you know the cancer be this grade and it 's estrogen receptor positive and you're this age and all this factor and this be what we can do .
 everything be so precise and now it 's like you're back to the unknown again like i be before and i don't like emphasis add sophia early quote express difficulty with the term survivor explain how she see while technically i can call myself a survivor i kind of guess i think of myself as a warrior as a breast cancer warrior which symbolize that at some point i've have this but that i recognize that the struggle may be still it 's still ongoing to some degreebecause you just don't know what 's come down the pike .
 not close enough to death to be a survivor .
 give the longstanding cultural fear associate with cancer and medicine 's inability to prevent breast cancer or cure metastatic breast cancer leopold 1999 and patterson 1987 it be not altogether surprising that woman face difficulty reconcile fear of recurrence with the message that they have beat cancer .
 much unexpected be that several of the woman in this sample reject survivorship because they believe they be not sick enough to be a survivor .
 a 42-year-old respondent by the name of olivia explain i don't see me as be close to death you know .
 so in term of go to the relay event they say i'm a survivor .
 i may look at it like this one lady say she 's a conqueror instead of a survivor .
 i probably tend much to believe on that end .
 like other woman olivia craft own definition of survivorship but do so because she do not come close enough to die .
 martha age 66 year reject survivorship because to being a survivor mean that they be just deathly ill and i don't feel like i be deathly ill but i would have be probably within six month .
 however neither of this woman have an easy bout with cancer .
 each undergo surgery chemotherapy and radiation .
 women like olivia and martha suggest that the breast cancer culture have emphasize the heroic battle against cancer to an extent that have alienate some woman from the breast cancer culture .
 rejecting the social identity of survivor .
 the final group of woman explicitly refuse to be part of the social identity that be breast cancer .
 individual face chronic stigmatize severe or debilitating illness risk be socially identify by disease bury 1988 charmaz 1995 goffman 1963 locker 1983 and macdonald 1988 .
 in response the ill person may work to define herself as much than just an illness charmaz 1991 and charmaz 1995 .
 in the case of survivorship this desire to not be identify by one 's illness extend even when the identity have positive overtone .
 gwen age 32 year explain that she do not need those symbol around to remind her of what she have be through .
 she say she be not the kind of person to wear the badge of honor and she like to think of herself in much complex term .
 kate age 44 year describe how she sometimes hate to be remind of cancer by the pink ribbon and license plate she see around .
 she perhaps well articulate the discomfort with the public nature of breast don't like be part of group you know what i mean like i don't like be part of clichs i don't like be a part of a society .
 i like be an individual so i don't like be link in with a label and that 's the uncomfortable piece to me .
 i don't mind tell you that i've have breast cancer but i don't want to commit myself to march across the us and i don't want to commit myself to this cause you know what i mean a 53-year-old woman name joanna take the reluctance to identify as a survivor far refuse to be labeled and refuse to ignore large factor she believe cause just don't feel like i see myself as a survivor and i don't like to buy into it 's like when the soldier come home from iraq and they're tell you can have this prosthesis and you won't mind not have an arm and you're a war veteran now that 's who you be .
 and i don't like the government or the medical establishment labeling me something .
 interviewer and what do you think that label mean or imply cancer survivor be somebody who 's be screw by the government once again .
 the reason we get cancer be due to pollution and lack of care of human being in culture and cancer survivor just mean you've be convince to look at yourself as somebody who think of the reason but you survive .
 you don't know anything about globally where this event stand you just survive and that 's label .
 joanna be the only woman in the sample to politicize the cultural definition of survivor and consider how those definition preclude a consideration of structural factor .
 joanna draw upon a tradition within native american culture to craft own conception of breast only get through this because i'm part native american and i have certain thing to think about during such time like the sundance where you put piercings in chest and you pull them out to prove love of fellow man and to show you can suffer and love .
 so i view it like thatbut it really come in handy for me because it give me a reframing device a way to look at this that make me not a cancer victim or cancer survivor .
 i'm someone who go to a sundance and i live and i'm stronger now .
 as joanna so beautifully articulate the sundance represent the meaning she want to associate with breast cancerthe mutilation of chest suffer and the continuation of life .
 survivor as a non-salient framework .
 for a final group of woman survivorship be not a salient part of cancer experience .
 when ask if she consider herself a survivor betty age 68 year reply you know i've never really think about it but i guess i be .
 the woman for whom survivorship lack salience be all over the age of 65 year .
 for them survivorship be unavailable or undesirable .
 instead they relied on the discourse of the aging body .
 as martha age 66 year explain i wasn't really shatter by it or anything i mean after you live 65 year you know you're bind to have something like that .
 discussion .
 this finding suggest that dominant representation of disease pose challenge for individual attempt to make sense of illness even when the disease meaning be positive .
 truthful or what frank 1995 refer to as good story be much desire than positive cheerful story .
 for breast cancer a good story would acknowledge the long-term role of cancer in woman 's life and fear of recurrence .
 such a framework would reduce the separation of the private and public experience of cancer and draw woman close to the communicative body which accept the contingency of life exhibit suffer openly and can share with other in pain .
 such a framework would also entail a shift in terminology from survivor to live with cancer or co-existing with cancer .
 there have be recent call to recognize cancer as a chronic disease such as the institute of medicine report from cancer patient to cancer survivor lost in transition which detail the long-term need of cancer patient .
 however the datum present here demonstrate that woman with breast cancer face a conflict between cultural definition of survivorship and own ongoing battle with cancer .
 a good cancer story would also acknowledge the variation in response to breast cancer langellier sullivan 1998 .
 women 's response to survivorship vary even among a relatively homogonous sample capture at similar point post-treatment .
 the diversity of woman 's response to survivorship present a challenge to clinician and other responsible for address the need of cancer patient .
 clearly labeling woman as survivor will assist some in adjustment and leave other feeling uncomfortable .
 moreover this finding add to understanding of the use of culture .
 because this woman be in the process of retool life the agentic process of building meaning around illness be evident .
 a set of cultural meaning be salient to them however meaning be not simply reject or accept .
 rather individual work to modify cultural meaning to fit life .
 by craft meaning woman reclaim agency after a medical event that can be highly impersonal abstract and technical .
 women 's meaning post-cancer be important because framework attach to experience shape subsequent action .
 as such woman seek meaning that support ongoing effort to prevent a recurrence or quickly detect a new cancer .
 how can we explain why some woman and not other adopt the survivor identity neither disease stage nor treatment modality predict view of survivorship in this sample .
 future work should further examine the influence of disease and person characteristic on identification with survivorship .
 women of color and woman of low socioeconomic status may view survivorship differently or may draw upon other salient cultural framework mathews lannin mitchell 1994 .
 future work should also examine woman 's relationship to the survivor identity at other point in the illness experience .
 perspectives on survivorship may shift over time as woman work through the effect of treatment feel great distance from the disease or face a recurrence .
 in addition this study do not systematically examine how the survivor culture shape woman 's physical self .
 however prior work suggest that the breast cancer culture send clear message to woman that they must conceal the effect of cancer .
 therefore future work should further pursue connection between survivorship and woman 's body .
 political and feminist response to breast cancer be largely absent from this datum .
 this may reflect the sample and future work should consider whether other sample articulate this perspective .
 even if woman do not identify with the breast cancer culture or draw upon it in limited way the dominant model may affect them by limit way of think about the disease .
 in other word cultural construction of breast cancer may mute feminist or political response to the disease batt 1994 and leopold 1999 .
 why do the current image of the survivor persist if it do not work for many woman on a social level contemporary construction of breast cancer succeed in secure funding sympathy and respect for the disease .
 the narrative of survivorship support the medical model wherein illness be diagnose treat and cure batt 1994 and frank 1995 .
 on an individual level woman have opportunity to join in the dominant culture via consumerism pink ribbon and symbol .
 fewer opportunity exist to act in alternative way .
 what would it mean to embrace a new construction of survivorship that recognize the last effect of breast cancer and the diversity of response to breast cancer first it would mean acknowledge physical sensation management of appearance and effect of treatment fosket and thomas-maclean .
 second it would mean acknowledge the limit of medicine in control cancer .
 according to batt 1994 237 each woman with breast cancer understand medicine 's limited ability to control the disease reliance on physician test and medical intervention would be enormously reduce .
 the power of this institution over us would dwindle accordingly .
 without the rosy filter of the breast cancer culture woman with breast cancer would gain the right to map own future within the very real constraint impose by a life-threatening disease .
 conclusion .
 view of breast cancer have change dramatically in recent decade .
 women with breast cancer today will face little shame have access to great information about disease and openly receive the support of other .
 this be an overwhelmingly positive change for breast cancer patient .
 however in construct a positive cure-oriented definition of survivorship the breast cancer culture have leave many woman search for representation which acknowledge fear and the continue presence of cancer in life .
 moreover woman 's response to breast cancer be vary .
 thus a well model of life after cancer would acknowledge the variety of response to the disease and the ongoing significance of the disease in woman 's life .
 acknowledgment .
 this article be based on work support by the national science foundation under grant and by the national cancer institute r25tca57699-14 .
 i would like to thank the follow people for helpful comment on this paper jane mcleod bernice pescosolido elizabeth armstrong betsy fife richard warnecke and carol ferrans .
 letrozole femara novartis pharmaceutical east hanover nj a third-generation aromatase inhibitor have show superior efficacy over tamoxifen both as early adjuvant therapy1 and as first-line endocrine therapy for advance breast furthermore letrozole be superior to placebo when give as extend adjuvant treatment follow 5 year of .
 with the widespread use of aromatase inhibitor initial or acquire resistance to this agent pose a major clinical problem .
 research into the mechanism of resistance have show that various signal transduction pathway be activate and use by breast cancer cell to escape the effect of endocrine therapy .
 for example activation of the pi3 kinase mtor pathway be a key adaptive change drive endocrine mammalian target of rapamycin mtor inhibition have restore responsiveness to tamoxifen in mcf-7 breast cancer cell constitutively express akt an effect that occur partly through blockade of oestrogen receptor er mediate the role of mtor in oestrogen-driven breast cancer proliferation suggest that combine an aromatase inhibitor and an mtor inhibitor be beneficial to patient with tumour .
 everolimus be an orally bioavailable inhibitor of the mtor pathway .
 the effect of in cancer cell include reduce growth and proliferation and inhibition of protein translation and vascular endothelial growth factor vegf consistent with activity as an inhibitor of mtor be particularly active in tumour cell with high level of the active form of akt namely pakt which be associate with much aggressive tumour cell growth and .
 early clinical study of alone characterised pharmacokinetic pk and show much adverse event ae to be of only mild to moderate severity .
 dose-limiting toxicity dlt be grade 3 stomatitis fatigue hyperglycaemia and neutropaenia .
 molecular pharmacodynamic study of advance cancer patient before and during treatment have show complete target inhibition at a dose of mg day .
 this dose be well tolerate and produce blood level comparable to those at which anti-tumour effect be demonstrate in pre-clinical treatment of mcf-7 aro aromatase-expressing breast cancer cell with or letrozole have inhibit oestradiol- or androstenedione-induced modulation of the mtor pathway in and letrozole have also inhibit androstenedione-induced proliferation an effect that be significantly enhance when the agent be combine p .
 combination treatment be associate with profound disruption of cell cycle progression reduce cell viability p and increase apoptosis p .
 a similar effect of the combination on cell proliferation and survival be also observe in t47d aro breast cancer .
 the primary objective of the phase ib study report here be to investigate the safety of and potential pk interaction associate with the combination of 5 or mg day and letrozole mg day in patient with advance breast cancer .
 the secondary objective be to find evidence of anti-tumour activity in patient with no objective response to letrozole alone .
 patient and method .
 in this phase ib open-label escalating-dose trial sequential cohort be define by the dose of combine with the register dose of letrozole mg day .
 because mg day be previously identify as the optimal biologically active dose dose escalation be plan to stop after the feasibility of combine mg day with letrozole be establish even if the maximum tolerate dose have not be reach .
 toxicity be assess use the national cancer institute common terminology criteria for adverse events version ctcae dlt be define as any grade 3 4 toxicity occur within the first 28 day suspect to be relate to study drug with the exception of grade 3 lymphopaenia hypercholesterolaemia or hypertriglyceridaemia or lead to treatment interruption of 2 week duration .
 the first cohort of 6 patient receive 5 mg day .
 in the absence of dlt the second cohort receive mg day .
 if no much than 1 of 6 patient experience dlt an additional 6 be recruit .
 in the expand cohort of 12 patient the estimate probability of detect an ae occur in of individual be and that for an ae occur in be patient be to remain on combination treatment for as long as they be progression free in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or for other reason that in the investigator 's or patient 's opinion require termination of participation .
 the protocol be approve by local ethic committee and all patient sign inform consent form before study inclusion .
 patient inclusion and exclusion criterion .
 eligible patient be postmenopausal woman or man 18 year with histologically confirm metastatic or locoregionally recurrent advance breast cancer who have receive first- or second-line endocrine therapy with letrozole mg day for 4 month without objective response stable or progressive disease exclude patient with bulky or symptomatic disease consider an urgent indication for chemotherapy .
 other inclusion requirement be a life expectancy of 4 month world health organization who performance status of or 1 hypercholesterolaemia hypertriglyceridaemia grade 1 with lipid-lowering drug permit adequate bone marrow function absolute neutrophil count anc l platelet l haemoglobin g dl and normal liver and renal function serum albumin within reference range serum bilirubin upper limit of normal uln serum transaminase 3 uln serum creatinine mol l or creatinine clearance ml min by cockcroft-gault formula .
 exclusion criterion include treatment with strong cyp3a inhibitor or inducer know central nervous system metastases uncontrolled infection know human immunodeficiency virus infection anticoagulant medication lactose intolerance antineoplastic therapy within 4 6 week radiation therapy within 3 week or surgery within 2 week prior to the study .
 individual with an active bleeding diathesis be also exclude .
 patient with any other concurrent severe and or uncontrolled medical disease diabetes hypertension congestive heart failure ventricular arrhythmias active ischaemic heart disease myocardial infarction within 6 month chronic liver or renal disease active ulceration of the upper gastrointestinal gi tract impairment of gi function or gi disease that might significantly alter absorption of be ineligible .
 laboratory examination and safety assessment .
 laboratory examination vital sign and physical examination be perform locally accord to the schedule visit and include haematology analysis blood chemistry and urinalysis by standard dipstick method .
 who performance status be assess use standard scale .
 abnormal laboratory value be record as ae only if associate with clinical sign and symptom or require therapy .
 all report ae and serious ae be record and follow up .
 serious ae be follow for 28 day after treatment discontinuation .
 pharmacokinetic assessment .
 pk parameter be derived from concentration time datum with standard non-compartmental analysis method and include peak concentration cmax time to reach the cmax tmax trough pre-dose concentration cmin and area under the curve over the dose interval auclast .
 letrozole be measure in plasma use automate solid-phase extraction and liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection .
 heparinised blood 5 ml be freeze at c within min of collection .
 sample be process use automate solid-phase extraction and liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection .
 the calibration range be 1 nmol l with a low limit of letrozole quantification of 1 nmol l use 1 ml of plasma .
 blood concentration be determine by liquid liquid extraction follow by liquid chromatography and mass spectroscopy .
 edta blood 2 ml be store at c within min of collection .
 the low limit of quantification be ng ml .
 blood sample be take for 24 h pk profile of both and letrozole at steady state day 15 immediately pre-dose and 1 2 5 8 and 24 h thereafter .
 on day prior to administration of the baseline pk profile for letrozole alone be obtain .
 no baseline be obtain as the interruption of letrozole for adequate washout be consider unethical .
 steady-state pk datum in patient with advance cancer be obtain in another phase i study with mg day .
 single pre-dose blood sample be collect on day 8 and 29 for determination of letrozole and trough level .
 efficacy assessment .
 tumour response be assess every 2 month by standard radiography compute tomography magnetic resonance imaging or clinical examination accord to response evaluation criteria in solid tumor recist .
 statistical analysis .
 data be analyse based on intent-to-treat analysis .
 descriptive statistic be use for patient datum and laboratory value .
 the effect of on letrozole pk and vice versa be assess .
 result .
 eighteen eligible caucasian patient 17 female 1 male with a median age of year range 32 75 and breast cancer metastases to bone lung liver kidney superficial lymph node and or skin be enrolled .
 five patient have a who performance status of 13 have a status of 1 .
 all patient receive letrozole before study entry .
 thirteen patient also receive chemotherapy 4 of 6 in 5 mg day cohort 9 of 12 in the mg day cohort .
 all patient receive at least one dose of study medication .
 seven patient remain on therapy for 6 month and 6 receive study medication for 1 year 2 patient in the 5 mg day cohort 4 patient in mg day cohort .
 table .
 key demographic and background characteristic by treatment group .
 all 5 mg mg day total number of patient intent-to-treat population18612 dose-determining populationa17611 .
 median age y range 32 75 58 72 32 75 performance status .
 prior antineoplastic therapy n hormonal therapy totalb letrozole tamoxifen 18 18 15 6 6 4 12 12 11 chemotherapy totalb adjuvant metastatic 13 4 4 4 9 6 4 time since diagnosis 2 years321 2 years15411 .
 localisation of metastasesc target and non-target lesion bone918 lung with or without mediastinum 514 liver734 superficial lymph .
 full-size table .
 a one patient withdraw consent prior to the end of the dose-finding period .
 b a patient with both hormonal therapy or both chemotherapy indication be count only once in each total .
 c a patient with several localisation be count once for each localisation .
 view within article .
 safety result .
 the combination be well tolerate at both dose level .
 detailed safety result appear in table 2 and table one patient in the mg day cohort experience a dlt grade 3 thrombocytopaenia and grade 3 neutropaenia recover within 2 week of and letrozole interruption .
 the four much frequent ae be stomatitis grade 1 and 2 in 3 of 6 patient in the 5 mg day cohort and in 6 of 12 patient in the mg day cohort fatigue in 2 patient in the 5 mg day cohort and in 6 patient in the mg day cohort diarrhoea in 7 patient in the mg day cohort and anorexia and or decrease appetite in 8 patient in the mg day cohort3 of whom have a concomitant gi disturbance diarrhoea irritable bowel syndrome gi infection not consider relate to the study drug .
 non-dose-limiting thrombocytopaenia grade 1 occur in 1 of 6 patient receive 5 mg day and in 7 of 12 patient receive mg day .
 in this patient platelet count intermittently return to normal level despite ongoing treatment with .
 no grade 1 neutropaenia be observe in patient receive in either cohort .
 grade 2 neutropaenia be observe in 3 patient receive mg day and grade 3 neutropaenia be observe in a patient receive mg day who also experience grade 3 thrombocytopaenia .
 non-dose-limiting increase in hepatic enzyme be common with grade 1 elevation in alkaline phosphatase in sgot ast in and sgpt alt in of patient .
 grade 2 increase in this enzyme occur in and of patient respectively .
 bilirubin level remain within the normal range for all patient .
 table .
 key study parameter .
 all 5 mg mg day total number of patient treated18612 discontinued18612 .
 exposure mo median duration range discontinuations due to adverse event ae 422 disease progression1349 withdrew .
 ae total n with aes18612 total n with ae grade 3 4a624 total n with ae cause dose adjustment total n with serious ae422 total n with serious ae with suspect relation to study .
 full-size table .
 a no grade 4 ae occur during this study .
 grade 3 ae in the 5 mg day cohort be peripheral oedema and a mass in the right breast each in 1 patient grade 3 ae in the mg day cohort be fatigue in 2 patient thrombocytopaenia neutropaenia in 1 patient and anorexia diarrhoea hypokalaemia and campylobacter jejuni enteritis in 1 patient .
 view within article .
 table .
 adverse event ae in patient on and letrozole by treatment group in all patient all patient n 5 mg day n mg day n ae total number of patient with aes18 6 12 stomatitis9 3 6 anorexia decrease appetite8 a fatigue8 2 6 b diarrhoea7 a headache6 1 5 rash6 1 5 oedema peripheral5 1 a4 nausea4 2 2 aesthenia3 2 1 dry skin3 pruritus3 1 2 arthralgia2 bone pain2 constipation2 neuropathy2 dry mouth2 1 1 dyspnoea2 1 1 epistaxis2 1 1 hypercholesterolaemia2 1 1 pharyngitis2 pyrexia2 weight decreased2 full-size table .
 a one grade 3 ae .
 b two grade 3 ae no grade 4 ae .
 view within article .
 amongst the 6 patient receive 5 mg day 4 discontinue because of disease progression and 2 because of suspect ae see table 2 1 patient develop grade 3 oedema and the other experience a worsening of pre-existing chronic hepatitis enrollment of this patient in the study be note as a protocol violation .
 the much common ae in the 5 mg day cohort be stomatitis and fatigue nausea and aesthenia each see table 3 .
 amongst the 12 patient give mg day 9 discontinue treatment because of disease progression 1 withdraw consent and 2 discontinue because of suspect ae 1 have grade 1 bone pain and 1 experience recurrent general weakness see table 2 .
 the much common ae report in the mg day cohort be anorexia and or decrease appetite diarrhoea stomatitis and fatigue each headache and rash each peripheral oedema and dry skin see table 3 .
 in 4 patient in the mg day cohort be reduce to 5 mg day because of ae either follow interruption in 1 patient with stomatitis and 1 with general weakness and thrombocytopaenia or without interruption in 1 patient with stomatitis and 1 with lower-limb neuropathy .
 pharmacokinetic evaluation .
 thirteen patient provide blood sample for pk analysis 12 be evaluable for letrozole pk with and be evaluable for pk .
 data for steady-state pk be take from 6 patient with advance cancer involve in another unpublished phase i study who receive mg day as monotherapy .
 the pk of letrozole do not change in the presence of see table 4 and 1 .
 the co-administration-to-baseline ratio in 12 patient range from to for cmax and from to for auclast .
 the pk of in the presence of letrozole be generally comparable to that in the absence of letrozole see table 4 and 1 .
 no significant alteration in plasma and whole blood level of letrozole and respectively be observe when the agent be co-administered .
 table .
 letrozole and pharmacokinetic parameter .
 parameteraalonewith 5 mg dayratioalonewith mg dayratio letrozole n433999 tmax h 1 2 1 1 1 n a1 1 2 2 24 n a cmax nmol l cmin nmol l auclast nmol h l 787226767149 .
 5 mg day with mg day with mg day from n196 tmax h 11 1 5 1 1 6 cmax ng ml 31521361 17 cmin ng ml auclast ng ml h 298541211514 231 .
 full-size table .
 n a not applicable .
 a value be mean standard deviation except tmax which be median range .
 view within article .
 full-size image a mean letrozole plasma concentration nmol l standard deviation in patient with letrozole mg day alone or with mg b mean whole blood concentration ng ml standard deviation in patient with mg day alone or with letrozole mg day .
 datum be obtain in a previous study .
 view within article .
 efficacy evaluation .
 for much patient good response to single-agent letrozole be report as stable disease .
 the good response to combine treatment with letrozole and be evaluate in 18 patient .
 one patient with lesion of the skin the sole site of disease and receive mg day experience a durable complete response 22 month in duration .
 the disease have be progress with letrozole monotherapy .
 seven month after mg day be add a complete response be observe .
 the patient have be treat with letrozole for 7 week before the addition of mg day .
 table .
 disease status under letrozole alone and good response to combine treatment with and letrozole .
 all patient n 18 5 mg day n 6 mg day n 12 disease status on letrozole alone duration of letrozole alone median range mo best response on letrozole alone n stable progressive not .
 best response to combine treatment overall response cr or pr 1 complete response 1 duration mo partial response stable disease 9 4 5 c stable disease 6 mo 6 2 4 duration mo d14 218 13 17 23 progressive disease 5 2 3 unknown 3 full-size table .
 cr complete response pr partial response .
 a there be 3 patient with little than 4 month of letrozole therapy before inclusion 1 patient in the 5 mg cohort with month and 2 in the mg cohort with and month respectively .
 b time from first confirm cr to progression .
 c including 1 patient with reduction in liver metastasis .
 d time from first treatment to progression .
 e three patient only be classify as unknown 2 have no post-baseline tumour assessment report before discontinuation and 1 have stable disease report at day 42 minimum follow-up of 6 week require to classify good response as stable disease be not reach .
 view within article .
 no partial response be observe .
 in one patient receive mg day there be a reduction in liver metastases just short of the recist definition of partial response reduction of .
 this reduction be observe 46 day after the first dose of and the patient meet the recist criterion for stable disease for 13 month .
 the patient have be receive letrozole for 2 year prior to the study .
 the liver metastases have be enlarge over a 12 month period during letrozole monotherapy without meet the criterion for progressive disease .
 in addition prolong stable disease 12 month from study entry be observe in 2 patient receive 5 mg day and in 2 patient receive mg day see table 5 .
 discussion .
 result of this phase ib study indicate that the combination of daily oral dose of the novel mtor inhibitor with the third-generation aromatase inhibitor letrozole involve no pk interaction .
 overall tolerability of the combination be satisfactory with of patient discontinue because of an ae .
 the safety profile of the combination be generally consistent with that observe for monotherapy and with publish safety datum for temsirolimus another mtor inhibitor as monotherapy in advance breast cancer .
 much thrombocytopaenia and neutropaenia event occur within 2 week of treatment .
 subsequent study of the combination should therefore include a blood count at day not all patient who experience toxicity need to stop treatment with .
 of the 4 patient in the mg day cohort who have dose interrupt or adjust because of ae 2 continue for 18 month on a reduce dose 5 mg day .
 dose reduction or delay algorithm will be include in subsequent study of the combination therapy with the aim of develop evidence-based recommendation for the management of toxicity .
 amongst patient who do not experience toxicity lead to dose reduction or interruption within the first 4 week the combination treatment be frequently feasible over a prolong time period .
 of the 18 patient 7 be treat with the combination for 6 month and 6 be treat for 12 month .
 the study result suggest that the combination of with letrozole have anti-tumour activity .
 there be one complete response for 22 month and one near partial response for 13 month both in the mg day cohort .
 based on the clinical finding of this study an oral dose of mg day in combination with letrozole be recommend for far trial .
 this same dose have be identify as provide complete target inhibition in initial pk-pharmacodynamic model and subsequent molecular pathology study of the tumour of treat in the future the challenge will be to identify patient much likely to benefit from the combination of and letrozole .
 letrozole and the other third-generation aromatase inhibitor be know for excellent tolerability .
 combining an mtor inhibitor with an aromatase inhibitor do add side effect particularly mucositis but also fatigue skin and gi ae .
 the result of a phase iii trial of the mtor inhibitor temsirolimus administer at an oral dose of mg day for 5 day every 2 week combine with letrozole in comparison to letrozole alone be recently in an unselected population of postmenopausal woman with advance breast cancer the combination of temsirolimus and letrozole do not improve progression-free survival .
 this finding illustrate the need to investigate way of distinguish patient who benefit from the addition of the mtor inhibitor .
 subsequent clinical development must accept the complexity of well-conducted correlative study to help identify predictive biomarker .
 a double-blind randomised placebo-controlled phase ii study be ongoing to compare the efficacy of letrozole monotherapy with that of the combination of letrozole and mg day for neoadjuvant breast cancer treatment .
 tumour biopsy be be perform at baseline at day 15 and after 4 month of treatment .
 major study objective be to assess whether molecular characteristic of the tumour predict benefit from the combination therapy and to identify molecular marker that may serve as patient selection parameter in phase iii development .
 amongst other marker directly reflect mtor inhibition by p-s6 and those associate with mtor activation p-akt pi3 kinase mutation cyclin d1 will be analyse .
 this study have establish the feasibility of combine with letrozole .
 no pk interaction be observe and the safety profile appear satisfactory .
 side effect compromise tolerability be characteristic for the class of drug similar to those of other targeted therapy and be manageable and acceptable for an oral therapy that sufficiently benefit patient .
 a daily dose of oral mg day be recommend for far study in combination with letrozole .
 with this combination and at this dose level signal suggestive of anti-tumour activity be see in patient not achieve an objective response to letrozole alone .
 further development of this combination must focus on identify a predictive biomarker to allow selection of patient who benefit from this novel treatment approach .
 conflict of interest statement .
 jutta steinseifer carine wouters chiaki tanaka ulrike zoellner and pui tang be employee of novartis pharma ag or belgian or us subsidiary .
 jutta steinseifer chiaki tanaka and ulrike zoellner have stock holding in novartis pharma ag .
 ahmad awada jacques de grve and luc dirix receive research funding from novartis pharma ag for this study .
 fatima cardoso and martine piccart have receive honorarium as advisors to novartis pharma ag .
 christel fontaine and christos sotiriou have no conflict of interest to report .
 acknowledgement .
 this study be support by novartis pharma ag .
 the author acknowledge the assistance of philippe theyenaz in preparation of the clinical study report and richard mccabe in edit this manuscript .
 once metastasis occur the relative 5 year survival rate drop precipitously from over to little than depending on the site of the metastasis .
 for breast cancer the skeleton be the preferred site of metastasis .
 nearly of primary and about of secondary metastases target bone .
 within the skeletal system breast cancer cell much frequently colonize the end of long bone rib and vertebra this area contain rich microvasculature closely juxtapose to metabolically active trabecular bone surface .
 the metaphyseal area at the end of long bone contain a complex network of bone cell hematopoietic cell and stromal cell .
 the entry of breast cancer cell into the marrow cavity disturb the status quo in particular the interaction between osteoblast and osteoclast .
 in the adult skeleton this two cell type be responsible for the slow and continuous turnover of bone .
 when metastatic breast cancer cell invade the bone microenvironment the balance be upset in favor of net bone loss .
 indeed breast cancer metastasis usually result in osteolytic lesion due to activate osteoclast that degrade bone matrix .
 the bone loss can cause severe pain pathologic fracture spinal cord and nerve compression hypercalcemia and bone marrow suppression .
 in addition growth factor release from the matrix promote cancer cell proliferation and contribute to what have be describe as the vicious cycle .
 in particular transform growth factor-beta tgf- and insulin growth factor-1 igf-1 which be release from the matrix during bone degradation stimulate the production of parathyroid hormone-related protein pthrp that foster cancer cell growth .
 furthermore growth factor release from the matrix substance secrete by the cancer cell and osteoblast contribute to the metastatic microenvironment .
 some osteoblast factor such as receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa b ligand rankl and osteoprotogerin opg be part of the normal osteoblast-osteoclast signaling cross talk .
 other such as interleukin-6 il-6 il-8 and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 mcp-1 may indicate an osteoblast inflammatory response .
 it have be know for a long time that chronic inflammation which occur as part of the cancer cell 's interaction with the stromal environment support cancer progression and metastasis .
 fibroblasts endothelial cell cell of the blood and lymph vasculature as well as transient cell of the innate and adaptive immune system all affect cancer cell growth and metastasis .
 under ordinary condition communication within the stromal network be carry out by cytokine chemokine and other peptide .
 a disruption of homeostasis by trauma microorganism foreign material or cancer cell result in drastic change in the level and type of cytokine express .
 the stromal environment in metaphyseal bone be no exception .
 any circumstance that change the balance between osteoblast and osteoclast may lead to bone loss .
 for example osteomyelitis bring about by tuberculosis or aureus be associate with uncontrolled inflammation and especially high level of il-8 rantes and mcp-1 .
 titanium transplant-induced bone loss have be trace to an osteoblast stress response with high level of il-8 mcp-1 and il-6 .
 this cytokine have be show to attract and activate osteoclast as well as cell of the immune system thus perpetuate bone loss .
 while it be likely that tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte neutrophil and macrophage be a potent source of inflammatory molecule we present evidence in this paper that metastatic breast cancer cell can directly induce osteoblast to express increase level of inflammatory stress response molecule specifically il-6 il-8 macrophage inflammatory protein-2 mip-2 kc and mcp-1 .
 moreover the osteoblast response be mediate by soluble factor and occur independently of direct cancer cell osteoblast contact .
 ultimate target be the osteoclast .
 current therapy be direct at block osteoclast activity .
 bisphosphonates such as clodronate ibandronate pamidronate and zoledronic acid be the current standard of care for much metastases to bone .
 this synthetic analogue of inorganic pyrophosphate inhibit osteoclast activity and slow lesion formation .
 although they reduce skeletal-related event they be not curative .
 they do not lead to restoration of the bone and do not eliminate the cancer cell .
 the osteoblast appear to be functionally paralyzed .
 we have previously report that osteoblast expose to metastatic breast cancer cell or condition medium show an increase in apoptosis suppression of production of bone matrix protein and a change in morphology .
 the result of this study indicate that the osteoblast also switch into an inflammatory mode in the presence of the breast cancer cell .
 this osteoblast-produced inflammatory cytokine different from those make by the cancer cell can target osteoclast precursor that be effector of osteolysis .
 therefore osteoblast contribute to the osteolytic phenotype due to loss of bone deposition function as well as to increased production of osteoclast activate cytokine .
 material and method cell line osteoblast .
 hfob cell be human fetal osteoblast that have be immortalize with a temperature-sensitive large t antigen .
 at a permissive temperature of 34 c they proliferate incubation at 39 c show growth and foster osteoblast differentiation .
 this cell a gift from thomas spelsberg be cultured at 34 c co2 in hfob growth medium which consist of dulbecco 's modified eagle 's medium dmem 's f-12 sigma louis mo fetal bovine serum fbs sigma and penicillin u streptomycin g ml sigma .
 for experiment hfob osteoblast at 85 confluency be cultured at 39 c for 2 3 day in a hfob differentiation medium 's f-12 charcoal-stripped fbs penicillin u streptomycin g ml 8 m vitamin d3 biomol plymouth meeting pa 8 m vitamin k menadione sigma and g ml vitamin c ascorbic acid sigma .
 as indicate for various experiment hfob cell be plate at approximately cell cm2 in t-25 flask 35 mm or 6 well culture plate .
 mc3t3-e1 cell a murine pre-osteoblast line capable of differentiation and mineralization in culture be a gift from norman karin university of delaware .
 mc3t3-e1 cell be maintain in an mc3t3-e1 growth medium of alpha minimum essential medium mem mediatech herdon va neonatal fbs cansera roxdale ontario and penicillin u streptomycin g ml .
 for experiment as indicate mc3t3-e1 cell be plate at cell cm2 in mc3t3-e1 differentiation medium mem fbs penicillin u streptomycin g ml g ml ascorbic acid and mm -glycerophosphate sigma .
 breast cancer cell .
 mda-mb-231 cell a human metastatic breast cancer line derived from a pleural effusion be a gift from danny welch university of alabama birmingham .
 the cell be maintain in a breast cancer growth medium of dmem fbs and penicillin u streptomycin g ml .
 primary osteoblast from neonatal mouse calvariae .
 osteoblast be isolate from neonatal mouse calvariae and cultured as describe .
 animal use be approve by the iacuc of the pennsylvania state university .
 briefly 2 to 5 calvariae be dissect from 2 day c57bl 6 mouse pup .
 the calvariae be rinse with pbs cut into piece and incubate with 4ml of digestion solution mg ml collagenase type ia sigma and trypsin in pbs at 37 for min with shake immediately before incubation and again after min .
 after the min incubation the solution contain the cell be collect and l of fbs be add .
 the calvariae piece be wash with 2 ml of dmem and the wash add to the digestion solution contain cell and centrifuged 4 min .
 the cell pellet be resuspended in calvariae growth medium dmem fbs penicillin u streptomycin g ml g ml ascorbic acid and plate in a 6 well plate 2 ml cell suspension per well pool 1 .
 this procedure be repeat three much time pool 2 4 .
 the follow day culture medium be replace with fresh growth medium and cell be monitor until confluency be reach .
 the cell be trypsinized trypsin mm edta in hank balanced salt solution cellgro mediatech herndon va .
 pools 1 and 2 be combine and pool 3 and 4 be combine .
 cell be plate at a cell density of 1 to cell cm2 in calvariae growth medium .
 the next day the culture medium be remove and calvariae differentiation medium dmem fbs penicillin u streptomycin g ml g ml ascorbic acid ng ml dexamethasone be add to the cell and change twice a week until the desire osteoblast age be reach .
 combined pool 3 and 4 14 day from addition of differentiation medium be use in experiment describe in this study .
 conditioned medium preparation .
 mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell be grow to confluency .
 breast cancer growth medium be remove and the culture rinse once with pbs .
 's f12 for use with hfob cell or mem for use with mc3t3-e1 cell be add to the cancer cell ml in a flask cell cm2 .
 culture be incubate for 24 h .
 breast cancer cell condition medium bccm be collect centrifuged min to remove cellular debris and store at hfob cell condition medium be prepare hfob cell confluent be rinse one time with pbs before serum-free 's f-12 and penicillin u streptomycin g ml be add collect after 24 h of incubation centrifuged to remove debris and store at .
 conditioned medium treatment of osteoblast .
 vehicle medium vm consist of differentiation medium appropriate for each of the cell line use .
 a 2 differentiation medium be formulate for each of the osteoblast cell line .
 for hfob medium consist of dmem ham 's f12 fbs 8 m dihydroxyvitamin d3 8 m vitamin k g ml ascorbic acid iu ml penicillin and g ml streptomycin .
 for mc3t3-e1 the medium consist of mem neonatal fbs g ml ascorbic acid mm -glycerophosphate iu ml penicillin and g ml streptomycin .
 conditioned medium cm be comprise of one half volume bccm and one half volume 2 osteoblast differentiation medium appropriate for the osteoblast line use in the experiment .
 this scheme ensure that concentration of serum and differentiation factor be identical for vm and cm .
 peptide and cytokine .
 tgf- and anti-tgf- neutralizing antibody be purchase from rd system minneapolis mn and use at concentration indicate .
 the antibody be incubate with vm or cm for 1 h at 37 c prior to culturing with the osteoblast .
 parathyroid hormone pth 1 34 be obtain from sigma st .
 louis mo .
 analysis .
 cytokine in the culture medium be detect use raybio mouse antibody array iii system for mc3t3-e1 and raybio human array system i for hfob cell norcross ga .
 protein level be quantitated use sandwich elisa follow the protocol recommend by rd system .
 intra-assay variation be typically little than .
 select cytokine be quantitated with bio-plex mouse and human assay system bio-rad hercules california .
 statistical analysis .
 statistical analysis be carry out use sas for windows sas version sas institute cary nc .
 main effect be evaluate use one-way analysis of variance anova .
 data be use for analysis of all variable .
 statistical significance be define as a probability p in all analysis .
 n value for individual experiment be provide in the figure legend .
 result the production of il-6 il-8 and mcp-1 by hfob cell be increase in the presence of breast cancer condition medium and be dose-dependent .
 when hfob be approximately confluent they be rinse with pbs and treat with either vm or cm .
 twenty-four hour later the culture medium be collect and screen with a raybio human array .
 among the 62 cytokine in the screen il-6 il-8 and mcp-1 level be readily detect .
 in this array no cytokine be detect in the bccm alone .
 medium from vm-treated osteoblast also have no detectable level of cytokine in this array datum not show .
 full-size image 59k high-quality image 363k hfob secrete cytokine detect by a hfob cell be grow in growth medium at 34 c until they reach approximately confluency .
 growth medium be remove cell rinse with pbs and subsequently treat with vm or cm for 24 h at 34 the resultant culture supernatant be collect centrifuged to remove debris and analyzed with a raybio human protein array system a array result of culture supernatant of hfob cell treat with cm .
 from leave to right positive control mcp-1 il-6 il-8 positive control .
 b array result of mda-mb-231 bccm alone .
 positive control and .
 no cytokine be detect .
 view within article .
 in order to quantitate detect level standard elisa be carry out .
 the bccm be assay for the presence of human il-6 il-8 and mcp-1 .
 in this assay 73 pg ml il-6 449 pg ml il-8 and 2 pg ml mcp-1 be detect .
 this basal level of cytokine be subtract in the datum that follow .
 at a late time we assay bccm with a multiplex assay bio-rad bio-plex and find pg ml il-6 51 pg ml il-8 and pg ml mcp-1 .
 to define the osteoblast response to bccm and determine whether the stage of osteoblast differentiation be important for this response hfob be treat with cm for 24 h after various day of hfob be grow to confluency at 34 c and on day 6 transfer to 39 c to allow for differentiation .
 at day 3 5 and 7 after transfer the cell be treat with either vm or cm .
 twenty-four hour later the culture medium be collect and assay by elisa for human il-6 il-8 and mcp-1 .
 on day 4 and 6 the hfob cell treat with vm contain undetectable level of il-6 while the osteoblast treat with cm contain ng ml and ng ml il-6 respectively .
 however the difference be much pronounce as the osteoblast differentiate .
 for example a 24 h exposure of 8 day-differentiated osteoblast to cm lead to a 5- to fold increase in il-6 ng ml .
 at this time the level of il-6 from cell treat with vm increase to about 1 ng ml .
 full-size image high-quality image increase in secretion of il-6 by hfob at various stage of differentiation in the presence of breast cancer condition hfob be grow at 34 c until confluency day 6 when they be change to differentiation condition as indicate in the method section .
 twenty-four hour prior to the indicate day osteoblast be treat with either vm or cm .
 the resultant culture supernatant be collect and assay by a il-6 b il-8 c mcp-1 .
 the concentration of il-6 in the bccm alone be approximately 73 pg ml il-8 be 449 pg ml and mcp-1 be undetectable 2 pg ml .
 this baseline level be subtract from value obtain after hfob treatment with cm .
 experiment be perform twice for day 4 and 6 and eight time for day 8 with similar result .
 shown be a representative experiment .
 by pair t-test p for il-6 and for il-8 in a total of 5 separate experiment .
 p for mcp-1 in a total of 4 separate experiment p value calculation include datum not show .
 view within article .
 a similar pattern be find with il-8 .
 concentration in osteoblast treat with vm be low ng ml during the early differentiation stage however the concentration of il-8 increase to ng ml by day treatment with cm increase osteoblast production of il-8 by nearly five time ng ml when compare to treatment with vm at the same time ng ml .
 osteoblast production of mcp-1 display a different pattern of expression than il-8 and il-6 .
 mcp-1 increase in cell treat both with vm and cm .
 however the concentration of mcp-1 be high in culture of osteoblast treat with cm than with vm .
 this increase in mcp-1 be maintain throughout all stage of osteoblast differentiation day 4 osteoblast treat with vm ng ml mcp-1 cm ng ml mcp-1 day 8 osteoblast treat with vm ng ml mcp-1 cm ng ml mcp-1 .
 the dose response of cm-treated osteoblast expression be determine by treat hfob with and bccm .
 after 24 h the resultant culture supernatant be collect and assay by elisa for il-6 il-8 and mcp-1 .
 osteoblast production of il-6 il-8 and mcp-1 increase as the percentage of bccm be increase .
 full-size image 33k high-quality image 319k the hfob increase in secretion by breast cancer condition medium be dose hfob cell be plate and grow at 34 c until confluency when they be change to differentiation condition as indicate in the method section .
 on day 7 osteoblast be treat for 24 h with vm or cm at either or bccm .
 the resultant culture supernatant be collect and level determine by elisa .
 view within article .
 to determine if the alter production be specific to breast cancer condition medium osteoblast culture be treat with osteoblast cm .
 there be no significant change in osteoblast production of il-6 il-8 or mcp-1 compare to treatment with vm datum not show .
 direct co-culture of hfob and mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell .
 a direct co-culture model be test to determine if the change similar to treatment with cm occur with cell contact .
 mda-mb-231 cell be add to a differentiate day 8 at 39 c monolayer of hfob at a ratio of mda-mb-231 to hfob cell .
 mda-mb-231 and hfob cell be cultured separately as control .
 after 24 h the culture supernatant be collect and assay for il-6 and il-8 by elisa .
 the supernatant from the osteoblast-cancer cell co-culture contain nearly ng ml of il-6 and ng ml of il-8 while the hfob cell alone express 6 ng ml il-6 and ng ml il-8 .
 breast cancer cell cultured alone express pg ml of il-6 or il-8 .
 therefore there be a 6 fold increase in il-6 and a 3 fold increase in il-8 production under co-culture condition .
 while we believe that the cytokine be produce by the osteoblast it be possible in a co-culture situation the osteoblast may have stimulate the breast cancer cell to increase production .
 full-size image 27k high-quality image 271k increase in production by hfob co-cultured directly with mda-mb-231 hfob be plate and grow at 34 c until day 6 when the confluent culture be move to 39 on day 7 cell be count and mda-mb-231 metastatic breast cancer cell be add to the exist hfob osteoblast culture at a ratio of breast cancer cell osteoblast .
 mda-mb-231 cell be also plate alone .
 culture be then incubate at 37 c for 24 h .
 the resultant culture supernatant be collect and assay by elisa for il-6 and il-8 .
 medium from mda-mb-231 cell cultured alone have undetectable level of il-6 and il-8 .
 solid bar hfob cell check bar mda-mb-231 cell co-cultured with hfob cell at a ratio .
 n 2 p p .
 view within article .
 mc3t3-e1 osteoblast increase production in the presence of mda-mb-231 condition medium .
 due to the temperature-sensitive nature of the hfob cell and the complication of use two human cell line we also test a murine osteoblast line mc3t3-e1 .
 in initial experiment the cell be cultured for 25 day in mc3t3-e1 osteoblast differentiation medium before be treat with vm or cm for 24 h .
 the resultant culture supernatant be collect and assay with a raybio mouse array iii system .
 there be visible increase in il-6 and mcp-1 as well as lix cxcl 5 macrophage inflammatory protein-1 mip-1 and rantes .
 similar increase be observe when the mc3t3-e1 cell be treat with cm after 12 day of culture a time when the osteoblast be in the early matrix-forming stage datum not show .
 this assay be follow by murine elisa to confirm and quantify mcp-1 and il-6 expression .
 the increase in murine il-6 be substantial .
 for example osteoblast treat with vm for 6 h contain ng ml il-6 whereas treatment for 6 h with cm yield ng ml .
 the increase in murine mcp-1 however be little dramatic 4 ng ml compare with 7 ng ml datum not show .
 since mouse do not express il-8 we assay for the murine mip-2 think to function similarly to il-8 .
 mip-2 be detect at low concentration 8 pg ml but increase with exposure to cm pg ml datum not show .
 thus exposure to bccm elicit a similar response in both human and murine osteoblast line .
 additionally an increase il-6 response be demonstrate in primary mouse osteoblast isolate from neonatal calvaria .
 due to the consistent dramatic increase in murine il-6 production by the treat osteoblast il-6 be designate as the signature for the inflammatory response .
 full-size image high-quality image 871k conditioned medium from breast cancer cell induce osteoblast production by mc3t3-e1 cell .
 after 12 or 25 day in culture mc3t3-e1 osteoblast be treat with either vm or cm .
 twenty-four hour later the resultant culture supernatant be collect and a raybio mouse antibody array iii be use to detect change in osteoblast production .
 shown be the result from 25 day 12 day result be a murine osteoblast vm b murine osteoblast production after 24 h treatment with cm .
 from leave to right mcp-1 il-6 mip-1 lix and rantes .
 osteoblast secretion of cytokine be both induce lix and increase mcp-1 il-6 mip-1 and rantes when treat for 24 h with cm .
 view within article .
 full-size image 27k high-quality image 141k conditioned medium from breast cancer cell rapidly induce osteoblast il-6 production .
 after 12 day in culture mc3t3-e1 osteoblast be treat with vm or cm for 2 4 or 6 h .
 the resultant culture supernatant be collect and murine il-6 level measure by elisa .
 shown be the range of il-6 concentration hour of exposure to cm treatment in a box plot .
 black bar vehicle medium check bar condition medium .
 n 2 per condition .
 p 2 h p 4 h p 6 h .
 view within article .
 full-size image 21k high-quality image 76k primary murine calvarial osteoblast secrete il-6 in response to breast cancer condition medium .
 primary osteoblast be isolate from the calvariae of neonatal c57bl 6 mouse as describe in the method section .
 the cell be cultured in calvariae differentiation medium for 14 day before the medium be change to vm or cm .
 after 24 h culture medium be collect and murine il-6 be quantitated by elisa .
 shown be the mean standard deviation .
 n 3 per condition p .
 view within article .
 to determine the response time to bccm mc3t3-e1 cell be cultured for 12 day and treat with vm or cm for 2 4 or 6 h .
 the resultant culture supernatant be assay for murine il-6 .
 as little as 2 h of exposure to the cm elicit a 2 fold increase in murine il-6 secretion by the osteoblast vm treatment ng ml il-6 cm treatment ng ml il-6 .
 after 6 h the increase be nearly 5 fold vm treatment ng ml il-6 cm treatment ng ml il-6 .
 parathyroid hormone-related peptide transform growth factor-beta and il-1beta be candidate factor for mediate the expression of osteoblast cytokine .
 pthrp interleukin-1beta il-1 and tgf- be report to be present in breast cancer condition medium and have be report to induce at least one of interest il-6 il-8 or mcp-1 .
 therefore they be consider as possible factor secrete by mda-mb-231 cell that may promote osteoblast expression .
 il-1 be not detect therefore it be eliminate from far consideration .
 pthrp be present at 46 pg ml approximately 12m andrea manni penn state hershey .
 a similar value be report by .
 this concentration be too low to bring about an increase in il-6 expression by the osteoblast datum not show .
 however tgf- be find to be present at between 1 and 5 ng ml depending on the batch of condition medium also see .
 this concentration be sufficient to stimulate il-6 production by the osteoblast see 8 .
 we test the combination of a suboptimal concentration of ng ml tgf- with 12 m pthrp and do not find a synergistic production of il-6 datum not show .
 therefore we focused on tgf- in the breast cancer cell condition medium .
 full-size image 34k high-quality image 183k tgf- be partially responsible for the expression of il-6 by mc3t3-e1 .
 mc3t3-e1 cell be cultured for 15 day .
 conditioned medium from mda-mb-231 cell contain ng ml tgf later determine by elisa be add to the cell at or incubate for 1 h at 37 with g ml neutralize antibody to before addition .
 other culture be incubate with ng ml tgf- or tgf- that have be pre-incubated with g ml antibody to .
 one set of culture be incubate with vehicle medium only .
 after 4 h incubation the culture medium be collect and assay for il-6 .
 black bar vehicle medium check bar condition medium .
 shown be the mean standard deviation of a representative experiment .
 this experiment be conduct three time in duplicate with similar result n 6 per condition p .
 view within article .
 we determine the effect of add a tgf- neutralize antibody to the breast cancer cell condition medium .
 addition of condition medium to mc3t3-e1 increase production of il-6 nearly fold compare to addition of regular differentiation medium vm .
 treatment of the condition medium with an excess g ml of neutralize antibody to reduce osteoblast il-6 expression by compare with untreated condition medium .
 addition of tgf ng ml to the osteoblast increase il-6 production by approximately fold .
 this value be reduce by follow incubation of the tgf antibody with the tgf before addition to the cell .
 we later determine that the condition medium contain approximately ng ml tgf .
 thus the antibody be far in excess of that require to neutralize of the antigen .
 a similar result be see when we use an inhibitor tocris ly364947 of the tgf receptor datum not show .
 discussion .
 we find that osteoblast respond to condition medium from mda-mb-231 human metastatic breast cancer cell with enhance expression .
 specifically the osteoblast increase production of il-6 mcp-1 and il-8 human three cytokine characterize as osteoblast inflammatory stress protein .
 this molecule may help to provide a favorable tumor cell environment as well as initiate osteoclastogenesis .
 this find support the idea that breast cancer metastases create a unique niche in the bone microenvironment by co-opting the normal cell of the bone to favor tumor growth and development .
 while other cell type be undoubtedly involve in the metastatic and tumorigenic process here we demonstrate a direct effect of metastatic breast cancer cell on osteoblast .
 breast cancer metastasis to bone be predominantly an osteolytic disease whereby osteoclast not cancer cell be the cause of bone degradation .
 according to the vicious cycle paradigm cancer cell-secreted pthrp activate osteoblast to express rankl which bind to receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa b rank on osteoclast lead to activation and subsequent bone loss .
 osteoclast resorption of the bone matrix release tgf- that act on the tumor cell to stimulate much pthrp .
 however osteoclast be not solely responsible for sustain bone loss .
 administration of bisphosphonate to inhibit osteoclast activity do not result in resolution of bone lesion .
 lesion formation be slow but lesion do not heal .
 clearly the impact of metastatic breast cancer cell on osteoblast be ignore .
 in a close examination of the fate of the osteoblast it be find that in the presence of mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell or condition medium cultured osteoblast exhibit an increase in apoptosis a change in morphology and suppression in differentiation and mineralization as evidence by a lack of expression of alkaline phosphatase bone sialoprotein and osteocalcin .
 this increase in osteoblast apoptosis and decrease in alkaline phosphatase expression be also detect in vivo in a mouse model .
 in addition to this phenotypic effect the current study demonstrate that osteoblast exhibit an increase in inflammatory cytokine in the presence of metastatic breast cancer cell .
 a array reveal that three cytokine in particular il-6 il-8 and mcp-1 increase dramatically when hfob human osteoblast be treat with cm .
 il-6 and il-8 be also elevate when hfob cell be co-cultured .
 mc3t3-e1 murine osteoblast display a similar increase in murine il-6 and mcp-1 when expose to metastatic breast cancer cell condition medium .
 as far evidence we have also see an increase in mip-2 and kc murine homologue to human il-8 both in vitro and ex vivo unpublished datum .
 exposure of primary murine osteoblast to mda-mb-231 breast cancer condition medium also elicit an increase in murine il-6 .
 this same cytokine be express in high level by osteoblast in debris-mediated osteolysis which occur when particle from prosthetic device cause a chronic state of inflammation in the bone microenvironment .
 additionally osteoblast expose to tuberculosis or aureus both in vitro and in vivo undergo an inflammatory stress response and produce il-6 il-8 and mcp-1 .
 the infection of bone by this two microbe elicit the chronic inflammatory response and bone damage observe in trauma-induced osteomyelitis .
 thus the present study indicate that breast cancer cell evoke a similar stress response from osteoblast .
 il-6 be a pleiotropic that influence many biological event include bone remodeling .
 in particular il-6 play a role in the formation and activation of osteoclast both in vitro and in vivo .
 il-6 have be implicate in the pathogenesis of bone resorption associate with paget 's disease gorham-stout disappear bone disease syndrome and multiple myeloma .
 of interest to this study il-6 have be show to induce production of pthrp in human osteoblastic cell .
 soluble pthrp which be also derived from tumor cell can stimulate the production of additional osteoblast-derived il-6 through a feedback loop and facilitate osteoclastogenesis by decrease the production of opg and increase osteoblast expression of rankl .
 the bone resorption that subsequently follow release store tgf- from the bone matrix that can in turn enhance breast cancer cell production of pthrp .
 in addition to play a role in osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption il-6 have other function that may contribute to cancer progression .
 although the involvement of il-6 in regulate the growth and apoptosis of breast cancer cell be unclear il-6 be know to be a growth factor for myeloma cell and act as an anti-apoptotic factor for human esophageal carcinoma and multiple myeloma cell .
 in addition il-6 downregulate the expression of a chemokine with anti-malignant property by mda-mb-231 cell .
 il-6 have also be report to enhance the migration of t47d breast cancer cell in vitro .
 furthermore the importance of il-6 in cancer progression be demonstrate by a study in which il-6 signaling in mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell be block .
 this inhibition result in significantly decrease tumor engraftment size and metastasis in a nude mouse model .
 finally il-6 level in breast cancer patient have be correlated with clinical stage and rate of recurrence .
 in particular high il-6 serum level in patient with advance or recurrent breast cancer be find to be an unfavorable prognosis indicator .
 besides act on cell in the tumor bone microenvironment il-6 have also be find to increase osteoblast production of another identify in study mcp-1 .
 a monomeric polypeptide member of the cc chemokine superfamily mcp-1 be a principle involve in inflammation and bone remodeling .
 mcp-1 be know to recruit cell involve in inflammation osteoclast precursor and angiogenesis .
 this three process be clearly involve in breast cancer tumorigenesis and lesion formation in the bone .
 mcp-1 be also normally produce by osteoblast but also be increase in metastatic cell line .
 mcp-1 have be find to be particularly important in cancer cell migration and metastasis .
 in a study that utilize the metastatic pc3 lncap and bone metastatic lncap c4-2b prostate cancer cell it be find that mcp-1 increase proliferation and invasion .
 interestingly the g-protein-coupled receptor ccr2 the receptor for mcp-1 be find to be present on all the prostate cancer cell line examine .
 in addition prostate cancer cell be find to produce high level of mcp-1 compare to primary prostate epithelial cell .
 in that same study mcp-1 be show to mediate prostate cancer tumor-induced osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption .
 in breast and ovarian cancer patient mcp-1 serum level have be correlated with advance tumor stage .
 in addition the expression of mcp-1 in squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus be equate with venous invasion and metastasis .
 furthermore it have be show that mcp-1 act as a chemoattractant for myeloma cell .
 thus it be evident that mcp-1 be a key mediator involve in inflammation and cancer cell progression .
 il-8 be a cxc inflammatory produce by many cell type include osteoblast .
 il-8 be first identify as a neutrophil chemoattractant and be now know to attract monocyte and osteoclast precursor as well as promote angiogenesis .
 in the bone il-8 have be show to directly inhibit alkaline phosphatase expression as well as decrease normal bone resorption and increase the motility of osteoclast to new resorption site .
 interestingly human osteoclast have also be show to secrete high level of il-8 indicate the molecule 's importance in normal bone remodeling .
 along with il-6 and mcp-1 il-8 have also be find to be important in cancer cell progression .
 il-8 be secrete by many tumor cell line that be metastatic and osteolytic .
 in addition il-8 appear to play a role in cell motility invasion and metastatic potential in human tumor .
 concerning this present study increase bone metastatic potential of human breast cancer cell have be associate with the cancer cell 's ability to express il-8 .
 in several study do by metastatic breast cancer cell-derived il-8 be find to directly stimulate osteoclastogenesis via rankl dependent and independent mechanism .
 in particular it be propose that il-8 play an important role in the vicious cycle of breast cancer cell metastasis to the bone .
 breast cancer cell-derived il-8 increase rankl expression on osteoblast which in turn facilitate osteoclast formation .
 in addition soluble il-8 directly promote osteoclastogenesis lead to bone resorption .
 stored tgf- be then release from the bone matrix that continue to drive the vicious cycle amplify osteolysis and support breast cancer bone metastases .
 il-8 have also be implicate in the clinical outcome of patient with breast cancer .
 in a study involve 69 woman with operable or advance breast cancer elevate serum il-8 level be find to be directly associate with the clinical stage of breast cancer and be find to be indicative of a poor prognosis .
 do this cytokine feedback directly onto the tumor cell it seem unlikely since the mda-mb-231 cell do not have receptor for this cytokine .
 specifically as report in the literature mda-mb-231 cell do not express the cxcr1 receptor for il-8 but do express low level of cxcr2 mrna .
 nonetheless neutralize antibody to il-8 do not affect the growth of the mda-mb-231 cell .
 mda-mb-231 cell do not express receptor for il-6 .
 this find be consistent with lack of response to il-6 .
 there be one report of low expression for the mrna for the receptor for mcp-1 but none for the protein itself .
 this report take together indicate that the cancer cell would not be expect to respond to this cytokine .
 hypothesis be that osteoblast produce this cytokine in response to the cancer cell and that this cytokine then go on to activate osteoclast .
 it be well document in the literature that il-6 il-8 and mcp-1 have osteoclast stimulate property .
 in summary we have show that osteoblast display an inflammatory response when expose to breast cancer cell condition medium .
 the inflammatory cytokine il-6 mcp-1 and il-8 can target osteoclast precursor and osteoclast to bring about bone matrix destruction .
 thus osteoblast contribute to the osteolytic phenotype both through suppression of bone deposition and production of cytokine that recruit and activate osteoclast .
 acknowledgment .
 this work be support by the army medical and material research command breast cancer program damd and to amm to kmb national foundation for cancer research center for metastasis research the susan komen breast cancer foundation the american institute of cancer research sigma xi undergraduate research grant president 's fund and schreyer honors college research award to and the author would like to thank richard ball of the immunomodulation core penn state gcrc work support by nih for technical advice regard elisa and donna sosnoski for editorial assistance .
 several establish risk factor such as parity or age at first full-term pregnancy be identify and relate to breast cancer etiology 1 .
 other factor such as diet or alcohol consumption be of great interest because they constitute a modifiable risk factor of breast cancer .
 the association between alcohol consumption and breast cancer have be largely investigate but the result publish be not entirely consistent .
 while some study find no evidence of increase risk with alcohol consumption 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8 other report a significant positive association 9 11 12 and 13 or agree that only high alcohol consumption increase breast cancer risk 14 15 and 16 .
 even if there be a consensus on the harmful and causal effect of alcohol consumption on breast cancer risk 12 and 17 some issue still remain unresolved .
 one of this issue be the role of drinking pattern on breast cancer risk .
 apart from two recent study 18 and 19 previous study have investigate the effect of average intake without take into account the pattern of consumption .
 southern france be a mediterranean region where wine be an integral part of the population 's dietary habit .
 although much study have investigate the effect of wine consumption on breast cancer risk to date no study have investigate the link between breast cancer risk and drinking pattern of this beverage .
 the principal aim of this case-control study be to evaluate the effect of drinking pattern of alcoholic beverage on breast cancer risk .
 we focused study particularly on wine consumption .
 we investigate average wine consumption by take into account whether wine be consume frequently or whether there be high intake on fewer occasion .
 dose-response analysis remain the key approach to epidemiological study .
 traditional dose-response analysis be usually based on threshold value represent by the quintile of the dietary variable .
 in this case-control study on a population in southern france we choose to examine the association between alcohol consumption and breast cancer by mean of a new statistical dose-response approach which be based on the detection of consumption threshold value accord to the breast cancer odd ratio or variation .
 this statistical method draw on the adaptation of free knot spline function in logistic model and provide a different way of look at the relation between disease and risk factor since the quantitative risk factor can be determine much precisely .
 to show the advantage of this new method we compare both the classical method and the alternative statistical spline method by examine the association between drinking pattern of alcoholic beverage and the risk of breast cancer .
 method study population .
 we conduct a population-based case-control study among french woman 25 to 85 year of age .
 eligible case subject be french-speaking woman reside in southern france hrault only with no former history of breast cancer .
 we attempt to recruit all those patient newly diagnose with primary breast cancer confirm histologically between june and december .
 patient be identify from both surgical ward and medical information department record .
 the median time between diagnosis and interview be 3 month .
 the control subject be randomized from the list of resident supply by the electoral roll .
 for each case recruit two control be match accord to both age 1 year and area of residence .
 among the respondent the rate of participation be for case and for control .
 four hundred thirty-seven eligible case and 922 eligible control be enrolled in the study .
 case and control sign a write consent form before enrolment in the study .
 the study protocol be approve by two ethical committee for study use human subject the consultative committee on data processing for medical research and the national commission on data processing and right which require that all medical information be confidential and anonymous .
 data collection .
 data be obtain by mean of a structure questionnaire administer by two train interviewer .
 the first part of the questionnaire be relate to demographic characteristic reproductive and menstrual factor oral contraception hormone replacement therapy hrt family history of cancer anthropometric factor physical activity and smoking history .
 women be consider to be menopausal if menstruation have cease naturally in the 12 month prior to the interview or follow a bilateral oophorectomy .
 in addition we estimate ovulation activity by subtract the cumulative number of month of pregnancy breast-feeding and use of oral contraception from the number of year between menarche and menopause or the date of interview in the case of premenopausal woman .
 question on physical activity be draw from a previous study 21 .
 subjects be ask to indicate the type of leisure activity and the time spend on it per week .
 household and occupational activity be value and score accord to the time spend per week for household activity and by level for occupational activity .
 the second part of the questionnaire be relate to diet and alcohol consumption .
 it assess the subject usual drinking habit .
 subjects be ask to report drinking status nondrinker ex-drinker or current drinker .
 nondrinkers be define as woman who have never drunk .
 for control ex-drinkers be define as woman who have stop drinking before the study start and for case before breast cancer be diagnose .
 current and ex-drinkers be ask about drinking habit in the previous year if habit have not change recently .
 otherwise habit before such a change be take into account .
 alcohol consumption assessment be separate into three category .
 the first concern consumption during the week the second deal with consumption during the weekend and the last be relate to party or family gathering .
 for each specific type of alcoholic beverage wine aperitif beer spirit subject be ask to indicate how much they drink and how often .
 five category of frequency be thus define abstinence no alcohol intake exceptional consumption little than once a month occasional consumption much than once a month but little than once a week regular consumption at least once a week and almost every day consumption much than five time a week .
 to compare result with other publish study that have investigate the link between drinking pattern of alcoholic beverage and breast cancer risk 18 and 19 three group of drinker be form abstinent sporadic and frequent drinker .
 frequent drinker be define as woman who consume alcohol five time a week or much often and sporadic drinker comprise woman who drink four time per week or little .
 alcohol consumption be standardized and record accord to drink unit .
 one unit correspond to g of ethanol in fl oz of wine fl oz of aperitif such as fortify wine or alcohol contain of alcohol by volume 11 fl oz of beer or 1 fl oz of spirit alcohol beverage contain around of alcohol by volume .
 the information about frequency and amount of consumption allow us to describe the consumption habit of the study population .
 the total period of consumption of alcoholic beverage be calculate from the age at which the woman begin drinking to the age when she cease drinking or age at the time of interview if she be continue to drink alcohol .
 change in drinking pattern during the period of consumption be take into consideration .
 for example a woman who claim not to be drinking at the time of interview in fact have be at some previous point alcoholic or have have sporadic alcoholism that motivate the cessation of drinking .
 in such case the long typical phase of consumption during that individual 's history be use for the study .
 diet be measure by a validate food frequency questionnaire 21 and 22 organize mainly by food group .
 this food frequency questionnaire have already be use for diet study 23 and 24 it assess the subject usual diet in the previous year if habit have not change recently .
 otherwise dietary habit before such a change be take into account .
 statistical analysis .
 multivariate conditional logistic regression be employ to analyze the association between breast cancer and alcohol consumption .
 or with associate confidence interval ci across exposure level of alcohol intake be calculate and adjust for potential confounder factor .
 this factor be choose accord to statistical significance p when they be take separately in a univariate analysis .
 the potential confounder include in the multivariate logistic model be education parity age at first full-term pregnancy duration of ovulatory activity breast-feeding family history of breast cancer first-degree mother and sister body mass index bmi and physical activity .
 dietary factor be also analyzed in association with breast cancer risk and adjust for confounder factor .
 the total energy intake and the dietary factor relate to breast cancer be also include in the multivariate logistic model .
 this case-control study be match accord to age with a narrow interval 1 year therefore statistical adjustment for age be not require .
 furthermore as be menopausal be identify as a nonconfounder there be no need for statistical adjustment .
 in each group of drinking pattern sporadic and frequent drinker instead of transform the continuous variable into ordinal variable accord to distribution quartile the sole function of which be to form different group of homogeneous size free knot spline for logistic model and threshold selection be use .
 this method provide a well mean of split the continuous variable into several group .
 this group be form use estimate threshold value vary accord to the or of breast cancer .
 furthermore extreme threshold locate before the 25th quartile or after the 75th quartile can be reveal by this method .
 this statistical method be recently apply to a clinical trial for an in vitro fertilization program and provide convincing result .
 unlike logistic model that assess the linear effect of the risk factor on the logit function and suppose that a unit change in one component of x have the same effect on the patient over the whole range of this component the spline method provide an interesting way of look at the relationship between disease and explanatory variable by relieve the linearity assumption of the logit function .
 the risk factor x enter the logistic model via a set of linear spline function the degree of the spline function be restrict to 1 that differ accord to the number of knot include the case in which the number of knot be null .
 a spline function without knot correspond to a linear function .
 the function that good fit the datum be select use akaike information criterion aic and bayesian information criterion 25 and 26 .
 moreover the knot of spline function be estimate for a give risk factor and can be consider as threshold value for which the or of breast cancer change .
 thus when the good model be not the linear model the continuous variable be transform into ordinal variable use this threshold value .
 this method be apply to datum use the s-plus package version .
 test of the linear trend when appropriate be conduct by consider the variable in the conditional logistic model to be monotone the p value attest the degree of significance of the variable in the model .
 all the p value be two side and value little than be consider statistically significant .
 the wald test be use to test nullity of parameter .
 multivariate conditional logistic regression be produce by mean of the phreg procedure in the statistical software package sas version 8 .
 result .
 the mean age of case be year year and that of control be year with no significant difference in the two group p .
 we find association for much of the accept risk factor of breast cancer .
 parity tend to decrease the risk of breast cancer and a first-degree family history of breast cancer tend to increase breast cancer risk .
 education breast-feeding and leisure physical activity be inversely associate to breast cancer risk .
 conversely a late first full-term pregnancy long duration of ovulatory activity high bmi as well as household and occupational physical activity increase breast cancer risk .
 table .
 distribution of select risk factor or breast cancer with associate odd ratio and confidence interval .
 of of controlsunadjusted or ci first-degree family history of breast paritynulliparous55891 age at first full-term yr3217441 yr or breast-feedingno2334191 duration of ovulatory yr1894531 bmi18 25281657125 physical activity leisure physical activity household 14 hr wk1782491 14 hr physical activity occupation sedentary2486181 total energy full-size table .
 or odd ratio ci confidence interval bmi body mass index .
 view within article .
 various food intake be relate to breast cancer risk .
 result support the role play by high consumption of red meat in increase breast cancer risk and that of cereal and olive oil in reduction .
 nonsignificant decrease be associate with cook vegetable intake as well as legume and fish consumption .
 dairy product raw vegetable and fruit intake appear not to be associate with breast cancer risk .
 table .
 odds ratio and confidence interval of breast cancer associate with select food adjust for total energy and breast cancer risk factor .
 of of controlsor ci total q 2221182381 q q q q q cerealsq q fish and seafoodq q olive oilq 267771 2 q q q dairy full-size table .
 or odd ratio ci confidence interval q quantity of alcohol intake g d .
 adjusted for total energy intake education parity breast-feeding age at first full-term pregnancy duration of ovulatory activity body mass index physical activity first-degree family history of breast cancer .
 energy intake of food measure in gram per day .
 view within article .
 of the1359 woman in the study of case and of control report no alcohol consumption in the 12 month prior to the diagnosis for case or prior to the interview for control .
 in addition of the woman of case and of control drink alcoholic beverage little than five time a week of the woman of case and of control report consumption of much than five time a week .
 no association be find between the frequency of alcohol consumption and breast cancer risk .
 table .
 association between frequency of alcohol consumption and breast cancer risk .
 intake frequencycases n 435 control n 922 unadjusted or ci or ci never417311 full-size table .
 adjusted for education parity breast-feeding age at first full-term pregnancy duration of ovulatory activity body mass index physical activity first-degree family history of breast cancer consumption of cereal meat and olive oil total energy intake and total alcohol consumption and duration of consumption .
 view within article .
 the average amount of total alcohol consumption be split accord to the level of consumption establish in a previous study 5 .
 alcoholic beverage be consume but little than an average of g per day 1 standard drink per day by of case and of control of case and of control consume an average of between and 15 g per day .
 an average of much than 15 g per day standard drink be consume by of case and of control .
 women who report an average consumption of between and 15 g day of total alcohol intake 1 to drink day have an or of ci when compare with nondrinker reference group .
 this association persist after adjustment for establish risk factor dietary factor and duration of consumption .
 above drink per day the risk rise but the association be nonsignificant .
 the dose-response relationship between alcohol consumption and breast cancer risk show a nonsignificant association .
 for each g day of total alcohol intake the or be ci see table 3 .
 table 4 show the or of breast cancer associate with total alcohol consumption categorised accord to drinking pattern .
 level of consumption for sporadic and frequent drinker be obtain by two method the classic method median threshold and the spline method estimate threshold .
 neither of the two method reveal an association between drinking pattern of total alcohol consumption and risk of breast cancer .
 table .
 odds ratio confidence interval of breast cancer risk accord to average alcohol consumption .
 alcohol intakecases n 435 control n 922 unadjusted or ci or ci q q 5 q q q total intake g d full-size table .
 or odd ratio ci confidence interval q quantity .
 alcohol intake measure in gram per day .
 adjusted for education parity breast-feeding age at first full-term pregnancy duration of ovulatory activity body mass index physical activity first-degree family history of breast cancer consumption of cereal meat and olive oil total energy intake and total duration of alcohol consumption .
 view within article .
 the beverage-specific intake of alcohol for wine beer aperitif and spirit be not associate with breast cancer risk .
 result be not modify when abstainer and occasional drinker be exclude from the analysis datum not show .
 table .
 association between breast cancer and drinking pattern of alcoholic beverage when level of drinking be obtain by two method classic and spline alcohol intakeintake level g d median of of controlsunadjusted or ci or ci never417311 intake level g d spline threshold never417311 full-size table .
 adjusted for education parity breast-feeding age at first full-term pregnancy duration of ovulatory activity body mass index physical activity first-degree family history of breast cancer consumption of cereal meat and olive oil and total energy intake .
 view within article .
 wine be the predominant type of alcoholic beverage in this population represent of total alcohol consume .
 aperitifs spirit and beer represent respectively and of the total alcohol consume .
 the average consumption of wine be g d whereas the average consumption of aperitif spirit and beer be respectively g d g d and g d datum not show .
 average wine consumption be separate into three category of drinking pattern never sporadic and frequent consumption .
 when the median threshold be choose to create the different group of level of consumption the association between sporadic or frequent wine consumption and breast cancer be nonsignificant after adjustment for potential confounder factor .
 table .
 odds ratio confidence interval for breast cancer per average intake g of alcohol .
 type of alcoholunadjusted or ci or ci p value for heterogeneity total full-size table .
 adjusted for education parity breast-feeding age at first full-term pregnancy duration of ovulatory activity body mass index physical activity first-degree family history of breast cancer consumption of cereal meat olive oil total energy intake and mutually adjust for other specific beverage wine beer aperitif spirit .
 view within article .
 when the spline threshold be use a nonsignificant increase or ci be find between sporadic wine consumption and breast cancer .
 in contrast a significant decrease in breast cancer be associate with woman who have frequent consumption of between and 12 g d of wine when compare with non wine drinker or ci .
 moreover this association remain significant after adjustment or ci .
 result be also not modify when non wine drinker and sporadic wine drinker be consider as referent or ci datum not show .
 above 12 g d of wine consumption the risk of breast cancer increase but the association be 1 illustrate or variation of breast cancer accord to spline threshold of regular wine consumption .
 table .
 association between breast cancer and pattern of drinking of wine when level of drinking be obtain by both classic and spline method .
 wine intakeintake level g d median of of controlsunadjusted or ci or ci never8214911 intake level g d spline threshold never8214911 full-size table .
 adjusted for education parity breast-feeding at first full-term pregnancy duration of ovulatory activity body mass index physical activity first-degree family history of breast cancer consumption of cereal meat and olive oil total energy intake and total consumption of alcoholic beverage other than wine .
 view within article .
 full-size image figure or variation of breast cancer accord to spline threshold of regular wine consumption .
 view within article .
 the adjust analysis of drinking pattern of alcoholic beverage exclude wine show that the risk associate with frequent drinker do not differ from those of nondrinker .
 in contrast a significant association between sporadic consumption and breast cancer risk be find .
 when the level of consumption be obtain by mean of the median threshold breast cancer risk associate with consumption above g d above g mo be reduce or ci compare with the risk associate with nondrinker .
 apart from a low estimate threshold value of g d above g mo similar result be find when level of consumption be obtain by use the spline method .
 table .
 association between breast cancer and pattern of drinking of alcohol beverage other than wine when level of drinking be obtain by both classic and spline method .
 alcohol intake other than wineintake level g d median of of controlsunadjusted or ci or ci never9517511 intake level g d spline threshold never9517511 full-size table .
 adjusted for education parity breast-feeding at first full-term pregnancy duration of ovulatory activity body mass index physical activity first-degree family history of breast cancer consumption of cereal meat and olive oil total energy intake and total consumption of wine .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 as in previous study 14 15 16 18 27 28 29 and result support the hypothesis that a threshold effect indeed exist since risk of breast cancer decrease or be not modify by consumption under a certain threshold above which it increase .
 the threshold value in this different study do not exceed an average consumption of g d 2 standard drink d .
 in study woman who have an average consumption of 1 to drink per day 15 g of ethanol d have a low risk when compare with nondrinker .
 above drink per day the risk rise but the association be nonsignificant .
 unlike study which find a significant increase in the risk of breast cancer with a consumption above 15 g d 9 11 12 13 18 27 28 29 and 31 study agree with those 2 3 4 5 7 and 8 which do not find a significant association .
 a recent study 19 suggest the importance of drinking pattern of alcohol consumption in breast cancer etiology .
 however to date only two study 18 and 19 have examine the association between drinking pattern of alcohol and breast cancer .
 as find in a previous study 18 drinking frequency do not influence breast cancer risk in study .
 for the same total consumption and duration of consumption of alcohol woman who have sporadic consumption have the same risk as woman who have frequent consumption .
 however far investigation must be conduct in this direction in order to confirm the result find .
 many study have investigate the effect of different type of alcoholic beverage on breast cancer .
 as with the meta-analysis by ellison et 12 no significant association be find between the different type of alcoholic beverage and breast cancer risk .
 however although no association between pattern of consumption of total alcohol and breast cancer be find the type of alcoholic beverage seem to play an important role in this association .
 in this study the risk associate with woman who consume approximately one drink 12 g of ethanol d of wine per day decrease significantly when compare with the risk associate with non wine drinker or sporadic wine drinker .
 the association remain unchanged after adjustment for potential confounder factor establish factor of breast cancer dietary factor and other alcoholic beverage beer aperitif and spirit .
 above 12 g d of wine consumption the risk of breast cancer increase but the association be non significant .
 the protective effect of low and regular wine consumption on breast cancer be plausible since wine particularly red wine contain high level of antioxidant as well as resveratrol a phytoestrogen with anticancer property 32 and 33 .
 it be also likely that high regular level of alcohol intake supplant the beneficial effect .
 this last hypothesis can explain previous result concern the deleterious effect of moderate to high wine consumption on breast cancer .
 however study not confirm this hypothesis because only for case and for control of the study population consume much than two drink of wine per day .
 on the other hand study may explain the protective effect of alcohol consumption find since wine be the predominant type of alcoholic beverage in this population and of the study population be frequent wine drinker .
 pattern of consumption of alcoholic beverage other than wine be also associate with breast cancer risk .
 after adjustment for wine consumption the risk associate with woman who consume sporadically much than g mo of alcoholic beverage other than wine decrease when compare to the risk associate with nondrinker .
 in contrast the risk associate with frequent drinker do not differ from those of nondrinker .
 result of some study suggest that the association between alcohol consumption can be modify by use of hrt 34 35 36 and 37 whereas finding from other study support no difference between hrt user and nonusers 4 7 8 11 29 and 38 .
 in the present study the estimate association with average alcohol intake be identical for both hrt and non-hrt user .
 the association between drinking pattern and breast cancer risk do not differ within either of this group of hrt user .
 although we find hrt to have no significance on alcohol breast cancer association we exclude a possible effect .
 in fact take separately factor may register an association however this may not necessarily be the case when consider together .
 the effect of alcohol on various biological mechanism in the causation of breast cancer have be widely discuss .
 investigator have suggest that alcohol consumption increase the risk of breast cancer among woman by influence estrogen metabolism 39 .
 the promotion of the growth of breast cancer may also be explain by an increase production by the liver of an insulin-like growth factor associate with moderate alcohol intake .
 likewise alcohol may exhibit mutagenic and oxidative effect in breast tissue affect folate level and lead to damage dna 41 .
 although several possible mechanism link chronic alcohol consumption to breast cancer it be possible that the critical effect of alcohol on cancer depend on a threshold value .
 the absence of adverse effect of low alcohol consumption on cancer find in study be therefore plausible .
 the strength of this study be ability to examine the association between breast cancer and drinking pattern of alcoholic beverage particularly wine .
 furthermore several confound factor be take into account much particularly dietary factor and total duration of consumption .
 educational level in study be associate with breast cancer it represent an indicator of the socioeconomic status of population study .
 some study 5 and 7 have observe that a high level of education be associate with high alcohol intake but none have report a significant interaction .
 to avoid a possible confound effect between alcohol and breast cancer due to socioeconomic status all analysis be adjust for educational level .
 because frequent and moderate to heavy consumption of alcohol be rare in population we do not have adequate statistical power to examine the relationship between heavy alcohol consumption and breast cancer risk .
 although case and control be interview in similar condition we not avoid a possible recall bias inherent in retrospective study .
 we can attribute the unexpected finding of the protective effect of alcohol consumption to possible recall bias since case have modify response concern alcohol consumption owing to knowledge of disease .
 however although alcohol consumption particularly wine in the mediterranean region be common discuss alcohol consumption remain taboo among case and control and lead to minimize the bias .
 the comparison between nonparticipants and participant in particular concern alcohol consumption be not possible in study .
 case and control who refuse to participate would not consent to give any information relate to the questionnaire .
 this nonparticipation limit the scope of study .
 from a statistical point of view the use of the spline logistic model provide a practical tool for investigate the dose-response relationship by create optimal group of exposure to risk factor .
 furthermore this method allow an accurate estimation of consumption for which the risk of breast cancer vary significantly .
 in summary the drinking pattern of each type of specific beverage particularly wine seem important in the alcohol breast cancer association .
 low and regular consumption of wine reduce the risk of breast cancer .
 the risk associate with woman who consume approximately one drink of wine per day decrease significantly when compare to the risk associate with nondrinker or sporadic wine drinker .
 the risk-benefit ratio of alcohol consumption be very complex and be ignore .
 knowing the benefit of low consumption on overall mortality and cardiovascular disease it be perhaps not suitable to systematically advise that all low alcohol consumer especially wine drinker reduce alcohol intake .
 as suggest in a previous study 42 it would be interesting to investigate the effect of alcohol on subpopulation with combine profile such as a subpopulation with a high predisposition to breast cancer and a low predisposition to cardiovascular disease or vice versa .
 we constitute different group without predisposition to breast cancer and cardiovascular disease predisposition to only one disease and predisposition to both .
 disease predisposition be assess by consider exposure to establish risk factor of disease the first degree of family history parity age at full-term pregnancy of breast cancer .
 result of such study improve public health recommendation .
 this work be support by a grant from the national cancer institute of france the hrault regional council and languedoc-mutualit .
 we wish to thank pamela goodman-stephens for valuable contribution .
 the international difference in breast-cancer incidence and mortality rate indicate important difference in the endogenous hormonal milieu lifestyle and environmental factor genetic susceptibility and mammographic screening activity among country .
 estrogen play a major role in the growth and differentiation of normal breast tissue and the development and progression of breast cancer which be confirm with experimental clinical and epidemiological evidence .
 japanese woman diet be rich in isoflavonoids show a very low incidence of breast cancer which may be explain by the difference in the relative risk or the prevalence of risk factor include dietary factor .
 phytoestrogens be natural compound derived from plant that exhibit estrogen-like activity tham et 1998 and cassidy et 1994 .
 soybeans contain high amount of isoflavonoids daidzein and genistein mg g which like lignan have be find to possess weak estrogenic activity range from to time little than that of estradiol zava and duwe 1997 and bingham et 1998 .
 epidemiological evidence indicate that soy intake be associate with low risk for breast cancer among woman lee et 1991 and fournier et 1998 and prolong length of the menstrual cycle .
 hence identify natural compound that act as antagonist of estrogen in the breast tissue and as agonist in the bone and cardiovascular tissue would be beneficial .
 licorice or liquorice kanzoh in japanese and gancao in chinese be the much popular ingredient use in over of chinese medicine and have be use by human being for at least year appear in an early chinese medicinal book shang han lun .
 the herb yield the licorice product of commerce that be use as an analgesic or antispasmodic agent an antidotal agent and as an expectorant .
 the licorice extract have generally be recognize as safe and be also use as flavoring and sweetening agent for tobacco chew gum candy toothpaste and beverage .
 the genus of licorice widely utilize in the western world be glycyrrhiza glabra glabra which be indigenous to spain iraq turkey russia japan and north glabra contain glycyrrhizin flavonoid and isoflavonoids while a recent research have focused on the active component and the extract of glabra in term of anti-proliferation activity tham et 1998 cassidy et 1994 and lee et 1991 .
 glycyrrhizin be a major triterpenoid saponin in licorice root constitute of the licorice extract and be consider to be the primary flavor constituent and sweetener of the herb .
 glycyrrhizin also exhibit proapoptotic property on the glycochenodeoxycholic acid-induced cytotoxicity of hepatocyte and have long be use for the treatment of chronic hepatitis in japan .
 other component glabrene and isoliquiritigenin in the extract of glabra can bind to the human estrogen receptor er with high affinity 1 and m and stimulate the proliferation of mcf-7 cell show a similarity to estradiol tamir et and maggiolini et .
 glabridin from glabra show an estrogen receptor-dependent growth-enhancing effect at the concentration of nm to m .
 isoliquiritigenin have also be suggest to be a candidate agent for the treatment of prostate cancer .
 hplc profile indicate that the extract from glabra be rich in flavonoid and isoflavonoids and contain different type of phenol .
 this study indicate that glabra root contain a wide variety of chemical have various bioactivity include cell proliferation activity .
 in order to understand the mechanism of the component of glabra root on the growth of breast tumor cell we investigate effect with a series of analysis include srb luciferase-reporter real-time pcr and neurite outgrowth assay .
 moreover expression profile be perform with a cdna microarray assay which have be use for the characterization of phytoestrogen to examine genetic response ise et terasaka et and terasaka et reveal gene network and provide significant clue as to functional mechanism .
 material and .
 chemical and antibody .
 glycyrrhizin be purchase from wako osaka japan and 17 estradiol e2 be from sigma aldrich louis mo .
 the powder of glabra root be obtain from alpus japan and the extract be prepare by boil the powder in water .
 ici and 4 hydroxytamoxifen be purchase from tocris cookson ellisville mo .
 a stock of mm solution for each compound be dissolve in dmso vehicle and the final concentration of the solvent in the culture medium do not exceed which do not affect the yield of cell .
 fetal bovine serum fbs be purchase from hyclone logan ut .
 penicillin streptomycin solution and trypsin edta solution be all purchase from life technology grand island ny .
 the antibody against akt and p42 44 mapk that recognize total akt or total phosphorylation state-independent erk1 2 protein respectively and the phosphorylation-specific antibody that recognize phosphorylated akt or erk1 2 be purchase from cell signaling technology beverly ma .
 all other chemical be of the high quality available from commercial source .
 cell culture and rna extraction .
 human breast cancer mcf-7 cell be obtain from the jcrb cell bank national institute of health science tokyo japan and cultured in rpmi medium invitrogen carsbad supplement with fbs at 37 c in a humidify atmosphere of air and co2 .
 cell be cultured in phenol red-free rpmi medium contain dextran-coated charcoal-treated fbs dcc-fbs for 3 day and treat with nm of e2 or control dmso as a vehicle for 3 day .
 after the cell be cultured for 3 day in the presence of chemical at specific concentration mrna be purify from the cell use the polyatract system promega madison wi .
 the quality of mrna be confirm by spectrophotometry .
 wild-type pc12 cell jcrb cell bank be maintain in dmem dulbecco 's modify eagle medium contain fetal bovine serum fbs horse serum hs 5 mm glutamine and antibiotic mixture of penicillin u ml streptomycin and mg ml fungizone mg ml in a co2 environment in mm falcon plastic tissue culture dish .
 the reagent for tissue culture be from gibco life technology germantown md .
 srb assay .
 sulforhodamine b srb assay be perform accord to after mcf 7 cell be treat with nm of e2 the extract of glabra root or glycyrrhizin for 3 day .
 transfection and luciferase assay .
 the reporter plasmid construct contain the promoter of the human estrogen receptor er gene pg-er-ab be use to examine the estrogenic activity with the procedure describe previously inoue et and inoue et .
 four independent transfection be perform for each treatment and the result be express as the mean value sd .
 real-time rt-pcr .
 the relative degree of gene expression in response to e2 and the extract be analyzed by real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction rt-pcr as describe previously .
 western blot .
 total protein be extract with sds buffer and sonicated on ice for s .
 after incubation at 95 c for 5 min with loading buffer total protein g be resolve by sds page with gel then electro transfer onto nitrocellulose membrane millipore billerica ma use a semi-dry transfer cell bio-rad hercules at 1 ma cm2 for 2 h .
 phospho-erk1 2 and phospho-akt be detect by probe membrane which be preblocked in tris-buffered saline contain and bsa tbst-bsa with phospho-erk1 2 or phospho-akt-specific antibody dilute in tbst-bsa overnight at 4 the complex of rabbit antibodies--antigens be detect with horseradish peroxidase-coupled goat antibody against rabbit igg cell signaling technology after with tbst-bsa and visualize by ecl plus western blotting detection system amersham pharmacia biotech arlington heights il use cool saver ae-6955 atto tokyo japan .
 the relative level of total akt or erk1 2 protein in each sample be determine through strip the rabbit antibody against phospho-akt or phospho-erk1 2 from the membrane follow by reprobing the membrane with antibody against erk1 2 .
 neurite outgrowth assay .
 the full-length cdna of the human er gene be cloned into pcmv-tag 4 expression vector promega .
 pc12 cell be transfected with er expression vector use lipofectamine invitrogen and select in the neomycin medium .
 the expression of the vector be confirm by western blot use an antibody against the tag .
 then the control pccon and pc12 cell transfected with er pcer be maintain in phenol red-free dmem contain charcoal-stripped serum fbs and hs and 5 mm antibiotic .
 pcer and pccon cell be plate at an equal density in steroid-free medium and treat with the vehicle ethanol nm e2 in ethanol or the extract g ml in combination with nerve growth factor ngf ng ml sigma aldrich .
 neurite outgrowth be examine 48 h after the treatment and score under the different condition for the treatment .
 approximately cell per well be examine for neurite .
 we operationally define the cell bear neurite as cell with process outgrowth long than one cell body in length .
 the datum be express as percentage of neurite-bearing cell total cell count .
 each experiment be repeat at least three time and three different region in the culture be count in each case .
 the datum be statistically examine by the t-test for individual group difference use spss software and the datum with p be consider to be significant .
 cdna microarray analysis .
 estrarray contain a total of gene consist of 172 estrogen-responsive gene and 31 calibration expression marker .
 here we use a total of estrogen-responsive gene that show greater statistical stability .
 in this study biologically independent dna microarray assay be repeat three time for e2 the extract or glycyrrhizin .
 estrarray assay and calculation of correlation coefficient between the dataset for e2 and the extract or glycyrrhizin be describe previously .
 .
 effect of the extract of glabra on cell proliferation .
 we first examine the effect of the extract of glabra root on the growth of mcf-7 cell .
 the cell be treat with nm e2 the extract or glycyrrhizin at various concentration g ml for the extract and m for glycyrrhizin and the growth be examine with srb assay .
 the result show that the extract stimulate cell growth at a range of g ml reach a level at g ml equal to that of nm e2 .
 in contrast glycyrrhizin do not show any significant growth-promoting activity at m although there be a very weak activity at in addition we use a broad range of concentration pm to 1 mm to examine glycyrrhizin by srb assay yet no significant activity be detect datum not show .
 the anti-proliferation activity have be report for the extract at high concentration tham et 1998 cassidy et 1994 and lee et 1991 probably due to toxic effect of minor component .
 in this study we focused on growth-promoting activity of the extract to understand the effect of the extract on proliferation of breast cancer .
 full-size image 15k effect of the extract of glabra root on the proliferation of mcf-7 cell .
 test material be add to cell culture at the indicate concentration .
 after incubation of the cell for three day cell proliferation be examine by srb assay .
 the result be normalize by the value for the control experiment use the vehicle .
 the normalize value proliferation index represent the mean sd of the datum from six independent experiment for each p .
 view within article .
 estrogen-responsive luciferase activity .
 we then examine the effect by reporter gene assay use the promoter contain an estrogen-responsive element .
 the promoter contain the cap site a and b proab of the human estrogen receptor er gene respond to estrogen-like compound and xenoestrogen inoue et and inoue et .
 we transfected a reporter plasmid contain proab luciferase gene into mcf 7 cell and examine the estrogen-like activity in the extract and glycyrrhizin at various concentration .
 the extract exhibit enhance luciferase activity at a range of 1 g ml reach a maximal stimulation level at g ml which be equal to that of nm e2 .
 in contrast glycyrrhizin do not show such an effect at a range of 1 because the extract at g ml and glycyrrhizin at m exhibit the high proliferation activity in either of srb or reporter gene assay we use this concentration to perform far analysis .
 full-size image 14k estrogen-responsive luciferase gene assay with the extract of glabra root .
 mcf-7 cell be lipofected with pg-er-ab vector dna and treat either with the vehicle as a control nm e2 the extract or glycyrrhizin at the indicate concentration .
 the luciferase activity be assay 12 h after the treatment .
 the value represent the mean sd of the datum from four independent p .
 view within article .
 transcription of estrogen-responsive gene .
 we then examine the effect of the extract on cell proliferation by real-time quantitative rt-pcr analysis for the estrogen-responsive gene .
 the gene examine be the signal transduction-related gene which be find to respond to estrogen and phytoestrogen ise et and zhang et .
 the result show that the extract up-regulated the expression of tff1 ps2 or trefoil factor 1 ctsd cathepsin d or lysosomal aspartyl protease cdkn1a an effector of p53 rps6ka rsk mapk-related and nrip1 ap-1-related while it down-regulated the expression of tp53i11 p53-related prkcd protein kinase c delta and arhgdia a ras super-family gene .
 this regulation pattern be very similar to that of e2 .
 statistic analysis far suggest the difference in the degree of expression for the up-regulated gene between e2 and the extract .
 in contrast the expression profile of this estrogen-responsive gene induce by glycyrrhizin be very different from that induce by e2 .
 full-size image 15k real-time rt-pcr analysis of the gene stimulate by the extract of glabra root .
 the response of signal-related gene be examine after mcf-7 cell be treat with e2 the extract or glycyrrhizin .
 the relative expression index be a log2 value of the ratio of the mrna level after and before the treatment .
 the gene examine here be tff1 trefoil factor 1 cdkn1a p53-related rps6ka3 mapk-related nrip1 ap-1 family ctsd lysosomal aspartyl protease tp53i11 p53-related prkcd akt-related and arhgdia ras superfamily gene .
 the value represent the mean sd of the datum from three independent experiment .
 view within article .
 activation of erk1 2 and akt in proliferation of mcf-7 cell .
 the activation of the rapid signaling pathway occur within an hour of stimulation which promote cell proliferation synergistically .
 to examine the involvement of erk1 2 and akt in the signaling mediate by the extract of glabra root the level of the phosphorylated form and total protein be determine after the treatment of mcf-7 cell with g ml of the extract and compare with the treatment with nm e2 or m ml glycyrrhizin .
 phosphorylation of erk1 2 and akt be clearly detect in response to all the material examine .
 however while phosphorylation of erk1 2 and akt induce by the extract be inhibit by the pre-treatment of the cell with estrogen antagonist ici or 4 hydroxytamoxifen as exactly observe for the treatment with e2 phosphorylation of erk1 2 and akt activate by glycyrrhizin be not inhibit by the antagonist .
 this suggest that the scheme and the pathway of signaling be very similar between e2 and the extract while glycyrrhizin although activate the same key player in signaling contribute to distinct and different signaling pathway .
 full-size image 42k activation of erk1 2 and akt by the extract of glabra a the time-course of erk1 2 b inhibition of erk1 2 phosphorylation with ici ici or 4 hydroxytamoxifen oht .
 c the time-course of akt d inhibition of akt phosphorylation with ici or 4 hydroxytamoxifen .
 serum-starved mcf-7 cell be untreated or treat with glycyrrhizin m the extract g ml or e2 nm for various length of time min and lysed in sds sample buffer .
 protein sample be electrophoresed in sds polyacrylamide gel transfer to nitrocellulose membrane and probe with the antibody specific to phosphorylated erk1 2 p-erk1 2 or akt p-akt .
 the level of protein loading be confirm use the antibody that recognize total erk1 2 protein t-erk1 2 or total akt protein t-akt .
 for the inhibition of estrogen signaling the cell be treat with the chemical for 15 min b and d after incubation of the cell with 1 m of ici or 4 hydroxytamoxifen for 15 min .
 view within article .
 er-dependent enhancement of neurite outgrowth .
 gollapudi and oblinger report that estrogen contribute to ngf-stimulated neurite outgrowth in pc-12 cell a rat pheochromocytoma cell line in an er-dependent manner .
 we examine here if the extract have a similar ability to enhance neurite outgrowth in an er-dependent manner .
 pc-12 cell be transfected with an er-expression vector pcer or an empty vector pccon and then treat with the extract in the presence of ngf .
 a large proportion of er-transfected cell have newly sprout neuritis after the treatment with the extract and e2 compare to the treatment with glycyrrhizin .
 in contrast neither the vector-transfected cell treat with the extract nor er-transfected cell without the treatment exhibit the enhancement of neurite outgrowth .
 this datum suggest that the effect of the extract on neurite outgrowth be similar to that of e2 whereas glycyrrhizin have no such effect .
 full-size image 42k neurite outgrowth stimulate by the extract of glabra root .
 control pc12 cell pccon or pc12 cell transfected with er expression vector pcer be cultured for 24 h .
 after add ngf the cell be treat with nm e2 g ml of the extract or m glycyrrhizin and cultured for 48 a pcer cell treat with the b pcer cell treat with the c pcer cell treat with d pcer ells treat with e pccon cell treat with the f quantitative analysis of neurite outgrowth show in panel a e .
 the percentage of the cell have at least one neurite long than the diameter of the cell body be p .
 view within article .
 gene expression profile by dna microarray assay .
 a set of gene with greater statistical stability be select after repeat biologically independent assay ten time and this be use for the far characterization of chemical .
 here similar expression profile be obtain between the cell treat with e2 and the extract use estrarray whereas the expression profile after the treatment with glycyrrhizin be very different from that of e2 .
 a significant correlation be observe between the extract and e2 r p for gene suggest the presence of estrogenic activity in the extract .
 interestingly a weak but significant correlation r p be detect between the extract and glycyrrhizin although there be no correlation between e2 and glycyrrhizin .
 this result suggest that glycyrrhizin modulate the expression of this gene and contribute to the correlation between the extract and glycyrrhizin but different from that of e2 .
 full-size image 61k cluster analysis of gene expression profile for e2 glycyrrhizin and the extract of glabra root .
 mcf-7 cell be cultured with m glycyrrhizin gly lane 1 g ml of the extract of glabra ex lane 2 or nm e2 lane 3 for 72 h and use for dna microarray analysis .
 the gene expression profile represent up-regulated gene red and down-regulated gene green after the treatment with glycyrrhizin the extract of glabra or e2 .
 the color scale indicate the ratio of the signal for each treatment cy3 signal to that for the vehicle cy5 signal show the relative expression level of each gene .
 the y-axis of the dendrogram at the top indicate the relative degree of similarity in mcf-7 cell .
 the name of gene and group name be show on the right .
 the number of the gene in each group be show in parenthesis .
 view within article .
 the gene be far categorize into six group with specific function enzyme signaling proliferation transcription transport and other and use for correlation analysis .
 significant correlation be observe between the extract and e2 for the group of signaling and proliferation whereas there be no significant correlation between e2 and glycyrrhizin .
 furthermore a significant correlation p be observe between the extract and glycyrrhizin for signaling gene suggest that glycyrrhizin partly share the common signaling pathway with the extract .
 the gene response be same between e2 and the extract but different from glycyrrhizin be list in table the list consist of a total of 18 gene include 5 signaling-related 7 proliferation-related 3 transport-related and 3 other gene .
 full-size image correlation of gene expression profile for e2 glycyrrhizin and the extract of glabra root .
 gene expression profile be compare between the sample after the treatment with e2 and the extract a e2 and glycyrrhizin b or the extract and glycyrrhizin c .
 the bar indicate the correlation coefficient for a total of gene or for the gene categorize into six group enzyme signaling proliferation transcription transport show in p and p .
 view within article .
 table .
 gene show significant different response for the treatment with glycyrrhizin from those with e2 and the extract of glabra .
 relative expression index unigene numbergroup namee2exgly .
 full-size table .
 the gene unigene name accession number and the group name show in 6 response to the treatment with glycyrrhizin gly be significantly different p from that of both of the treatment with estrogen and the extract ex be list .
 an anova test be perform before the t-test for the gene see section 2 .
 the value the relative expression index see 3 represent the mean of three independent experiment for the treatment of mcf-7 cell .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 here we demonstrate that the e2 and the extract of glabra root share similarity in cellular activity proliferation and morphology 1 and 5 which be much likely mediate by similar gene response at the transcriptional and signaling level .
 signal mediate by e2 in mcf-7 cell start from binding with er in the presence of various co-regulator and binding protein and firstly activate rapid signaling pathway or the non-genomic pathway for estrogen signaling include phosphorylation of erk1 2 and akt as show here .
 erk1 2 be member of mitogen-activated protein kinase which be activate by growth factor peptide hormone and neurotransmitters and mediate signal from various membrane receptor .
 akt or protein kinase b be locate downstream of the phosphoinositide 3 kinase pi3 k pathway and the activation of akt inhibit apoptosis and stimulate cellular proliferation .
 several chemical have be report to activate erk1 2 and akt in cellular activity .
 in mcf-7 cell activation of pi3k akt and erk1 2 pathway by estrogen stimulate insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor igf-1r signaling and promote cell proliferation synergistically dupont and leroith .
 activation of g-protein-coupled receptor by bradykinin a hypotensive agent stimulate the proliferation of mcf-7 cell through the pathway involve protein kinase c- akt and erk1 2 .
 in this case activation of the pi3k akt pathway result in the activation of erk1 2 .
 meanwhile the activation of rsk see rps6ka3 in 3 by erk1 2 through phosphorylation may further activate er function by phosphorylation at ser-167 .
 activation of the rapid signaling pathway which occur within an hour of stimulation far activate a variety of downstream pathway and cellular activity include transcriptional activation suppression of estrogen-responsive gene through estrogen-responsive element for example .
 the component in the extract of glabra root be involve in cellular activity .
 glycyrrhizin a triterpene glycoside be a major component 2 of the dry weight in the extract of glabra root and show a wide range of pharmacological property for example anti-inflammatory anti-tumor and anti-viral .
 result indicate that glycyrrhizin do not induce the expression of estrogen-responsive gene or the proliferation of mf-7 cell suggest that the estrogenic activity of the extract be due to other component .
 it have be report that glycyrrhizin can bind directly to mineralocorticoid receptor as an agonist when plasma concentration be high enough to compete with aldosterone and cortisol for mineralocorticoid receptor armanini et 1983 and armanini et 1989 .
 glycyrrhizin be also an inhibitor of 17 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 17hsd which be involve in the conversion of androstenedione into testosterone .
 at a concentration of mm in the incubation medium in vitro glycyrrhizin stimulate the aromatization of testosterone to estradiol and block the activity of 3 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 3hsd and 17 lyase takeuchi et 1991 and armanini et .
 while this enzyme be involve in the synthesis or metabolism of androgen and estrogen glycyrrhizin do not bind to estrogen or androgen receptor .
 glycyrrhizin act as an anti-proliferative agent against mcf-7 cell and other tumor cell and induce apoptosis .
 based on this fact we conclude that the activation of rapid signaling pathway by glycyrrhizin occur independently of the estrogen receptor therefore the estrogenic activity of the extract be not due to glycyrrhizin .
 glabridin be present in the extract at w w or much and exhibit an estrogen receptor-dependent growth-enhancing effect at the concentration of nm to m .
 glabridin show a very unique range of concentration for activity there be little activation of cell growth at 1 m while the maximum level of stimulation be observe at m and importantly anti-proliferation or apoptotic activity be detect at concentration 15 m tamir et dong et datum not show .
 the srb assay show here indicate that the extract stimulate cell growth at a range of g ml reach a maximum level at g ml which roughly correspond to m glabridin by estimate content .
 there be no anti-proliferation activity or activation of apoptosis even at the concentration of g ml in which at least 35 m glabridin be present .
 under this condition glabridin induce apoptosis tamir et dong et datum not show .
 on the other hand the extract significantly enhance the cell growth at 1 g ml .
 although m glabridin be equivalent to this condition glabridin do not enhance the cell growth at this fact suggest that although glabridin may contribute to estrogenic activity of the extract anti-proliferation activity be modulate by other component .
 chalcone isoliquiritigenin another component of the extract and a candidate for the treatment of prostate cancer exhibit antitumorigenic activity at high concentration on breast cancer cell while it show er-dependent growth promote effect at low concentration maggiolini et and kanazawa et .
 however the growth promote effect of isoliquiritigenin nm to m be low than that of e2 suggest that isoliquiritigenin partly contribute to estrogenic activity .
 other component of the root with estrogenic activity such as glabrene and genistein be find in the extract at very low concentration and as they can bind to the estrogen receptor with the same affinity as glabridin tamir et and somjen et they may also influence the estrogenic activity in the extract .
 therefore finding strongly support the hypothesis that the estrogenic activity of the extract be due to the cooperation of component in the extract such as glycyrrhizin glabridin isoliquiritigenin glabrene and genistein anti-proliferation at high concentration or growth-promoting at low concentration activity can be modulate by each other .
 the weak cytotoxicity of the extract might be much beneficial for the clinical application than a single usage of glabridin or isoliquiritigenin .
 vascular endothelial growth factor vegf omim play a central role in this process by act as an angiogenic inducer an endothelial cell-specific mitogen and a mediator of vascular permeability .
 there be evidence of an important role for vegf in breast cancer .
 vegf mrna and protein expression have be show to be increase in both non-invasive and invasive breast cancer tissue in comparison to adjacent normal breast tissue .
 in addition vegf expression level have be report to be increase by estrogen in breast cancer cell and isolate endometrial cell which support the notion that vegf play a significant role in the development of breast and other hormone-related cancer .
 moreover high level of vegf expression appear to correlate with poor prognosis and decrease overall survival in patient with breast cancer and in those with both early-stage and advance ovarian carcinoma .
 the vegf gene be highly polymorphic and much than single nucleotide polymorphism snp have be describe in the literature .
 of particular interest be snp locate in regulatory region that be associate with alter gene expression .
 one of this a polymorphism in the 3 untranslated region a cytosine to thymine change at position 936 result in a variant that no long have a potential binding site for the activator protein 4 ap-4 transcription factor which correlate with low plasma level of vegf in healthy man and woman .
 the t allele have also be find to be associate with a reduce uptake of 18f-fluorodeoxyglucose use for detection and stage of breast cancer provide additional evidence of the functional role of this polymorphism .
 association of this functional polymorphism with the risk of sporadic breast cancer have be describe in various study .
 however the result remain controversial as other study do not reproduce this finding .
 with respect to hereditary breast and ovarian cancer no datum on the potential role of the vegf936ct polymorphism as a modifier of disease risk have be publish .
 there be evidence indicate that brca1 regulate vegf gene transcriptional activation and secretion in breast cancer cell via interaction with various transcription factor .
 one study demonstrate that in the presence of wild type wt brca1 protein vegf expression and vegf secretion be inhibit whereas no inhibition be observe in the presence of mutate brca1 protein .
 the other study report that increase wtbrca1 level enhance both hypoxia-stimulated vegf promoter activity and vegf mrna level whereas mutate brca1 protein partially or completely lose the ability to stimulate transcriptional activity .
 this finding be in line with those from a small polish breast cancer study report significantly low serum level of vegf in brca1 mutation carrier n 18 than in non-carriers n 32 .
 thus the association of the vegf936ct polymorphism with vegf level and brca1 mutation status with vegf level suggest that an assessment of any possible functional consequence of this polymorphism in brca1-associated breast cancer be require .
 to elucidate the role of this functional vegf polymorphism in brca1-associated breast and ovarian cancer we perform a case control study among 755 polish woman carry one of the three common brca1 founder mutation include 319 breast cancer case 146 ovarian cancer case and control .
 material and .
 study participant .
 the hereditary cancer registry at the pomeranian medical university in szczecin poland contain clinical and epidemiological datum collect from 1997 to from individual carry one of the three common polish brca1 founder mutation 5382insc tg and 4153dela .
 mutation carrier be select from family with at least one breast cancer diagnose before year of age or ovarian cancer at any age or with a strong history of breast and or ovarian cancer .
 a self-administered questionnaire be use to collect information on potential risk factor .
 the research be approve by the ethic committee of pomeranian medical university in szczecin poland and all participant give inform consent prior to enrolling in the study .
 all woman receive genetic counseling prior to and at the provision of test result .
 from the register brca1 carrier 755 female brca1 mutation carrier for whom dna sample be available be include in this study this include 319 breast cancer case 146 ovarian cancer case and unaffected individual .
 the breast and ovarian cancer case be diagnose with invasive primary disease and have not undergo prophylactic mastectomy or adnexectomy breast cancer case and prophylactic mastectomy adnexectomy or tubal ligation ovarian cancer case prior to cancer diagnosis .
 control for breast cancer be unaffected by breast cancer in situ breast carcinoma or any other type of cancer and have not undergo prophylactic mastectomy or adnexectomy .
 the control for ovarian cancer case be unaffected by ovarian cancer or any other type of cancer and have not undergo prophylactic mastectomy adnexectomy or tubal ligation .
 the number of subject in the various subgroup the median age of case at diagnosis of breast or ovarian cancer and of control at the time of interview be present in table .
 table .
 study group median age of case at diagnosis of breast and ovarian cancer and of control at the time of interview .
 of case and controlsarisk factor datum availablemedian age of case at cancer diagnosis in year range median age of control at the time of interview in year range breast cancer case control total 41 22 74 44 18 85 232 225yes41 24 74 44 18 85 87 65no39 22 56 48 34 75 ovarian cancer case control total 47 25 75 44 18 85 85 215yes46 25 71 44 18 85 61 65no48 27 75 48 34 75 full-size table .
 a two-hundred and eighty of the control be use as control for both breast and ovarian cancer case .
 view within article .
 genetic analysis .
 genomic dna be isolate from peripheral blood leukocyte accord to lahiri and schnabel .
 genotyping of the vegf936ct polymorphism be perform by pcr rflp analysis .
 pcr primer and condition be as report previously .
 amplified fragment be digest with hsp92ii restriction enzyme promega mannheim germany separate on a agarose gel contain ethidium bromide sigma-aldrich steinheim germany and score by uv visualization .
 the fragment size be 198 bp for the c allele and 87 bp and 111 bp for the t allele .
 genotyping be perform by laboratory personnel blind to case control status and 48 755 of blind sample be repeat .
 concordance for this quality control sample be .
 the genotyping success rate be great than .
 statistical analysis .
 risk estimate be calculate as odd ratio or with confidence interval ci use both univariate and multivariate unconditional logistic regression .
 crude or orcrude be calculate for 319 breast cancer case and control and 146 ovarian cancer case and control .
 two hundred and thirty-two breast cancer case and 225 control and 85 ovarian cancer case and 215 control be adjust for potential breast ovarian cancer risk factor and be referred to as adjust or oradj .
 the risk factor include age at first live birth 24 24 year parity lifetime cumulative month of breastfeed 12 12 month age at menarche oral contraceptive oc use 5 5 year smoking 4 4 pack-years body mass index bmi at age of breast cancer diagnosis for case and at time of interview for control year of birth and brca1 mutation in the multivariate unconditional logistic regression model .
 age comparison among carrier of different genotype be perform use the mann whitney u-test .
 the statistical analysis be perform use the sas stat r software version with the procedure logistic .
 in order to account for a potential bias due to the presence of relative we also perform cluster multivariate logistic regression analysis use the sas programme surveylogistic .
 two-sided p value of or little be consider as statistically significant .
 due to the low proportion of woman with the tt genotype in patient and control ct and tt genotype be combine for analysis .
 result .
 the distribution of select cancer risk factor include age at menarche age at first live birth parity breastfeed oc use smoking bmi year of birth and brca1 mutation have be show previously and be similar between breast and ovarian cancer case and corresponding control .
 the overall prevalence of the vegf936t allele be in 755 brca1 carrier and be low among breast cancer patient and ovarian cancer patient in comparison to unaffected individual .
 the genotype frequency of vegf936ct polymorphism in case and control and the association of the genotype with breast and ovarian cancer risk be present in table .
 table .
 association of vegf936ct polymorphism with breast and ovarian cancer risk .
 genotype allelebreast cancer case n 319 n control n n orcrudea ci pcases n 232 n control n 225 n oradjb ci p vegf936ct cc245 77 reference 178 77 155 69 reference ct tt67 7 23 81 7 6 23 64 6 31 t allele frequencyc81 13 95 16 13 76 17 ovarian cancer case n 146 n control n n orcrudea ci pcases n 85 n control n 215 n oradjb ci p vegf936ct 74 196 reference 65 76 149 69 reference ct tt33 4 26 77 7 2 34 6 31 t allele frequencyc41 14 91 16 22 13 72 17 full-size table .
 a orcrude crude odd ratio .
 b oradj odd ratio adjust for age at menarche age of first live birth parity breastfeed oc use smoking bmi year of birth and brca1 mutation .
 c allele and genotype frequency be in agreement with those previously publish for healthy caucasian .
 view within article .
 the vegf936ct genotype frequency among breast cancer case and control reveal an association of the vegf936ct tt genotype with a reduce breast cancer risk oradj ci .
 after correction for relate study subject a statistically significant association remain ct tt cc orclustered ci .
 a comparison of the vegf936ct genotype frequency between ovarian cancer case and control show a similar decrease in ovarian cancer risk compare to that observe in the breast cancer case among vegf936ct tt genotype carrier but this be not statistically significant oradj ci .
 however when correct for family cluster a statistically significant association be observe ct tt cc orclustered ci .
 the mean age of breast cancer diagnosis in woman with the vegf936t allele be similar to that of the non-carriers 42 41 year .
 although this age difference be small and not statistically significant mann whitney u-test p it show a tendency that would be in line with the observe protective effect of the vegf936t allele .
 there be also no difference in the mean age of ovarian cancer diagnosis between carrier and non-carriers 46 47 year mann whitney u-test p .
 discussion .
 in this study we investigate the effect of vegf936ct polymorphism on the risk of breast and ovarian cancer in woman with predispose mutation in the brca1 gene .
 while several investigation of the vegf936ct polymorphism in sporadic breast cancer population have be previously report nothing be know about the effect of this polymorphism on disease risk in brca1-carriers .
 to the good of knowledge this be one of the first report to show a possible influence of the vegf936ct polymorphism on breast and ovarian cancer risk in woman who harbor predispose mutation in brca1 .
 result indicate that the vegf936t allele be associate with a decrease risk of breast cancer in polish brca1 mutation carrier .
 the association remain after the affect of the polymorphism be adjust for know and putative risk factor include age of first live birth parity breastfeed age at menarche oc use smoking status bmi year of birth and brca1 mutation .
 when correct for relate study participant the protective affect of the polymorphism remain imply that the observe risk modification be much likely to be attributed to the 3utr polymorphism in the vegf gene .
 outside of the context of brca1 similar association have be report .
 one austrian case control study on breast cancer case and control find an association of the vegf936t allele with a decrease breast cancer risk or ci .
 in another large population-based case control study include 1133 case and 1233 control from shanghai the vegf936tt genotype be associate with a decrease breast cancer risk or ci with this inverse correlation be restrict to premenopausal woman or ci .
 this finding however be not reproduce in three other case control study on sporadic and familial breast cancer .
 furthermore one of this study report the opposite effect of there be an association of the vegf936t allele with an increase risk of in situ breast cancer .
 in the current study a decrease in the risk of ovarian cancer be also observe take all confound effect into consideration which however do not reach statistical significance much likely due to insufficient number of case .
 nevertheless if only the family cluster be consider as a confounder a significant effect be observe .
 thus the influence of this polymorphism on brca1-associated ovarian cancer risk should be pursue in large study .
 the study population consist of woman who harbored mutation in a gene know to confer a high risk of disease against a group of woman who harbor the same germ line mutation but have not develop malignancy .
 this study highlight the potential benefit of investigate modifier of breast and ovarian cancer risk in population where the only difference be the presence or absence of disease .
 some limitation of the present study should be take into account a general selection bias may have occur due to the use of study participant from a registry .
 further due to the inclusion of incident and prevalent case in the polish registry the presence of prevalent case among study participant may have lead to a survival-bias which be a general limitation of this kind of retrospective study .
 the effect of this change on gene expression result in decrease vegf level and as a consequence reduce angiogenesis suggest that the vegf936ct polymorphism may modify disease risk itself .
 however it be also possible that the observe effect be due to another functional polymorphism elsewhere that be in linkage disequilibrium with this polymorphism .
 the present study provide evidence that the functional vegf936ct polymorphism modify the risk of breast cancer and may potentially alter the risk of ovarian cancer in polish woman carry brca1 founder mutation .
 due to the explorative nature of this study far confirmatory study be warrant .
 acknowledgement .
 this work be support by the deutsches krebsforschungszentrum heidelberg .
 anna jakubowska be a guest researcher from the pomeranian medical university szczecin poland support by a fellowship from the dkfz .
 anna jakubowska and jacek gronwald be support by a yamagiwa-yoshida memorial uicc international cancer study grant .
 methodologic issue with this retrospective case-control study include potential for report bias inappropriate referent group selection and lack of differentiation between spontaneous and induce abortion be identify as limitation to the internal validity of this finding .
 study with prospectively collect datum which ameliorate the potential introduction of report bias have show no evidence for an association between spontaneous or induce abortion and breast cancer risk .
 in the collaborative group on hormonal factor in breast cancer publish a pool analysis of prospective study that show no significant overall increase in breast cancer risk associate with have have one or much pregnancy that end as either a spontaneous or as an induce abortion .
 subsequently the european prospective investigation into cancer and nutrition report no association between induce abortion and breast cancer risk but a positive association with spontaneous abortion .
 a report from the nurse health study ii show no association between either type of incomplete pregnancy and breast cancer risk .
 although the weight of the evidence have shift toward no association there continue to be substantial public debate regard this question .
 we evaluate the hypothesis that incomplete pregnancy be associate with breast cancer risk in the california teachers study cts a large prospective cohort study with detail pregnancy history datum .
 material and .
 study population .
 a detail description of the cts have be publish previously .
 in brief the cts be a prospectively follow cohort of current recent and retire female public school teacher and administrator who be member of the california state teachers retirement system at the time of study inception in 1995 .
 cohort participant complete a detail questionnaire collect information on personal medical history family history of breast cancer reproductive history hormone therapy ht use other medication use recreational physical activity diet alcohol consumption and smoking history .
 the reproductive history section include a detail assessment of age at and outcome of each pregnancy include miscarriage and induce abortion separately .
 use of human subject datum in this study be approve by the institutional review board at each participate institution in accord with assurance file with and approve by the united state department of health and human services .
 a total of woman comprise the cts cohort .
 for this analysis we exclude woman in the follow order who be live outside california at the time they complete the baseline questionnaire have a prior history of breast cancer or history of breast cancer be unknown who be year or old at baseline who be currently pregnant with first pregnancy or who have incomplete information on critical breast cancer risk factor such as unknown age at menarche unknown if ever pregnant unknown number of pregnancy .
 the result analytic cohort for this report consist of woman .
 table .
 selected baseline characteristic of cts participantsa in relation to ever have a miscarriage or an induce abortion .
 total n column n nulliparousparous never pregnantever pregnantfull-term pregnancy onlyfull-term pregnancy with other outcome number of 6643 number of invasive breast cancer cases3325613 166 1724 822 age at baseline year meansd race ethnicity non-latina african 439 317 1349 865 latina4952 1251 2181 1113 asian pacific 1127 273 other 244 1333 786 first-degree family history of breast cancer 5658 2416 6427 3296 adopted unknown3822 884 277 861 age at menarche year 5277 6258 6386 1768 7594 6627 1942 7994 2628 799 6858 1829 564 menopausal status and ht use 376 144 524 post-menopausal never use 5656 2116 estrogen 1814 385 5571 2342 combined estrogen and progesterone 2133 549 7268 3144 otherb6422 1129 254 3411 1628 unknown menopausal 3316 941 ever miscarriage 4289 8354 2354 ever induce abortion 4589 full-size table .
 a limited to woman under age who have no prior history of breast cancer at baseline .
 b includes use of both estrogen-only and estrogen and progesterone ht progesterone-only ht and unknown ht use .
 view within article .
 case ascertainment and follow-up .
 newly diagnose case of invasive breast cancer be identify through annual linkage with the california cancer registry .
 the california cancer registry receive report for over of all cancer diagnosis occur in california resident from regional registry and through datum share agreement with neighboring state as part of a state mandate .
 during follow-up 3325 cts participant consider eligible for analysis be diagnose with invasive breast cancer in the time interval which begin on the date the baseline questionnaire be complete and continue until the first diagnosis of breast cancer or the first occurrence of a censor event a move outside of california a diagnosis of carcinoma in situ of the breast death or december 31 .
 continued residence in california be determine by use annual mailing of newsletter or questionnaire annual linkage with the united state postal service national change of address database and change-of-address postcard submit by participant .
 dates of death be obtain from the california state mortality file the national death index and the social security administration death master file .
 measure of incomplete pregnancy .
 participants provide detail information on the baseline questionnaire regard pregnancy history include age at and outcome of each pregnancy .
 in addition to outcome of first pregnancy never pregnant induce abortion miscarriage tubal pregnancy or live birth we design the follow measure to capture various aspect of induce abortion ever never induce abortion ever have an abortion never pregnant among nulliparous woman or only full-term pregnancy among parous woman total number of induce abortion never pregnant or only full-term pregnancy 1 induce abortion or induce abortion age at first induce abortion never pregnant or only full-term pregnancy first abortion before age year first abortion at age 24 year first abortion at age 25 29 year or first abortion at age year or old year of first induce abortion never pregnant or only full-term pregnancy first abortion before 1973 the year of federally legalize abortion or first abortion in 1973 or later .
 we design the follow variable to characterize miscarriage history ever never miscarriage ever have a miscarriage never pregnant or only full-term pregnancy total number of miscarriage never pregnant or only full-term pregnancy 1 miscarriage or miscarriage and age at first miscarriage never pregnant or only full-term pregnancy first miscarriage before age year first miscarriage at age 24 year first miscarriage at age 25 29 year or first miscarriage at age year or old .
 assessment of breast cancer risk factor .
 we consider establish breast cancer risk factor as potential confounder .
 this include self-reported race ethnicity non-latina white african american latina asian pacific islander or other unknown first-degree family history of breast cancer no yes or adopt unknown age at menarche 12 12 13 14 or year age at first full-term pregnancy 24 25 29 34 or year and number of full-term pregnancy 1 2 3 or .
 a woman be consider to be postmenopausal if she meet one of the follow criterion 1 she report that period stop much than 6 month ago 2 she report that she have both ovary remove 3 she be age at baseline and be not already classify as pre- or perimenopausal .
 women who have have a hysterectomy prior to last menstrual period and who be 55 year or young be consider to have unknown menopausal status .
 question be ask about conjugate equine estrogen premarin as well as other estrogen and progestin use .
 a combination menopausal status and ht variable be construct as follow premenopausal perimenopausal postmenopausal and never use ht postmenopausal and use estrogen only postmenopausal and use combine estrogen progestin therapy postmenopausal and use both estrogen only and estrogen plus a progestin at different period of time postmenopausal and use a progestin only and postmenopausal with unknown ht use or unknown menopausal status .
 statistical analysis .
 we use multivariable cox proportional hazard regression to assess whether measure of incomplete pregnancy be associate with breast cancer incidence .
 multivariable adjust hazard rate ratio present as the relative hazard with confidence interval ci be estimate use age in day at the start and at the end of follow-up as end point for the time under observation .
 model use to evaluate the relationship between the measure of incomplete pregnancy and breast cancer risk be stratified by parity status nulliparous parous in order to address the strong possibility of confound by this factor .
 all model be also stratified by age and 79 year datum not show .
 all analysis be perform in sas version sas institute cary nc usa .
 result .
 as show in table 1 of woman in the analytic dataset be parous .
 parous woman be old at baseline than nulliparous woman and of woman report ever have have a miscarriage .
 the proportion of woman who report ever have have a miscarriage vary by baseline age .
 for age group 39 49 59 69 and 79 year the proportion be and respectively and of woman overall report ever have have an induce abortion .
 the proportion of woman report ever have have an induce abortion vary by baseline age category and as with history of miscarriage be high in the to 49 year age group .
 for age group 39 49 59 69 and 79 year the proportion be and respectively .
 breast cancer risk be not associate with the outcome of first pregnancy .
 among nulliparous woman we observe no relationship between induce abortion miscarriage or tubal pregnancy as the outcome of first pregnancy and risk of invasive breast cancer .
 we observe no association between this outcome of first pregnancy and risk of breast cancer among parous woman .
 we observe no statistically significant association between breast cancer risk and induce abortion history measure as the number of induce abortion or as the age at first induce abortion in either nulliparous or parous woman .
 we examine risk before and after the legalization of induce abortion in the united state in 1973 and observe no association between breast cancer risk and the timing of first induce abortion .
 breast cancer risk be not associate with history of miscarriage number of miscarriage or age at first miscarriage among nulliparous or parous woman .
 in an analysis restrict to gravid woman we find that breast cancer risk be not significantly elevate hazard ratio race adjust ci among woman for whom all pregnancy end in abortion as compare to woman for whom all pregnancy end in full-term live birth .
 all model be also run stratified by age and 79 year result do not differ from those show for all woman datum not show .
 table .
 multivariable relative hazarda rh and ci for breast cancer associate with outcome of first pregnancy among woman in the cts by parity status .
 variablenulliparousparous outcome of first pregnancy reference 613 2165 induced 94 128 62 226 tubal 9 9 full-size table .
 a model be adjust for race family history of breast cancer age at menarche and a combination variable of menopausal status and ht use .
 model for parous woman be additionally adjust for age at first full-term pregnancy and number of full-term pregnancy .
 b reference group for nulliparous woman be woman who have never be pregnant .
 reference group for parous woman be woman who have a full-term pregnancy as the outcome of first pregnancy .
 c value be show as rha ci of case .
 view within article .
 table .
 relative hazarda and ci for breast cancer associate with induce abortion among woman in the cts by parity status .
 variablenulliparousparous ever never induce abortion reference 613 1724 ever have an 99 total number of induce abortion reference 613 1724 75 212 24 68 age at first induce abortion reference 613 1724 first abortion at age 38 24 21 72 25 29 26 71 42 99 year of first induce abortion reference 613 1724 first abortion before 51 165 first abortion in 1973 or 48 115 full-size table .
 a model be adjust for race family history of breast cancer age at menarche and a combination variable of menopausal status and ht use .
 model for parous woman be additionally adjust for age at first full-term pregnancy and number of full-term pregnancy .
 b reference group for nulliparous woman be woman who have never be pregnant .
 reference group for parous woman be woman who only have full-term pregnancy .
 c value be show as rha ci of case .
 view within article .
 table .
 relative hazarda and ci for breast cancer associate with miscarriage among woman in the cts by parity status .
 variablenulliparousparous ever never miscarriage reference 613 1724 ever have a 71 595 total number of miscarriage reference 613 1724 56 447 15 148 age at first miscarriageb reference 613 1724 first miscarriage at age 2 13 24 16 133 25 29 25 219 28 full-size table .
 a model be adjust for race family history of breast cancer age at menarche and a combination variable of menopausal status and ht use .
 model for parous woman be additionally adjust for age at first full-term pregnancy and number of full-term pregnancy .
 b reference group for nulliparous woman be woman who have never be pregnant .
 reference group for parous woman be woman who only have full-term pregnancy .
 c value be show as rha ci of case .
 view within article .
 discussion .
 neither induce abortion nor miscarriage be associate with breast cancer risk in this prospective cohort of female california teacher and administrator .
 this result be consistent with the report from the nurse health study ii a cohort of female register nurse age 29 to 46 year old at baseline in 1993 .
 in that cohort the adjust hazard ratio for breast cancer among woman who have one or much induce abortion be ci and the adjust hazard ratio for breast cancer among woman who have one or much miscarriage be ci .
 public concern regard the relationship between induce abortion and breast cancer risk continue to be voice despite the mount evidence that no association exist .
 much of the datum prompt this concern come from case-control study many of which may have be affect by bias or design flaw .
 much recently publish case-control study have report no positive association between induce abortion and breast cancer risk .
 prospective cohort study which minimize the potential for biased risk estimate have also find no association between induce abortion and breast cancer risk .
 datum appear to refute two mechanism hypothesized to underlie an association of induce abortion to breast cancer risk .
 the first that woman who undergo abortion do not experience the long-term protection against breast cancer that a full-term pregnancy would provide be not support by observation of similar risk among woman pregnancy only end in abortion with woman pregnancy only end in full-term live birth .
 the second hypothesis that the breast of woman undergo induce abortion be expose to high hormone level typical of early normal pregnancy but then do not experience the terminal cell differentiation that occur late in a normal pregnancy leave breast tissue much vulnerable to carcinogen be also not support by result .
 some woman in cohort may have underreported induce abortion .
 the abortion ratio among cohort member be per pregnancy end in induce abortion or live birth for woman under age 45 at baseline as compare with per pregnancy in the united state during the same time period .
 socioeconomic status be a strong predictor of all measure of abortion include the abortion birth ratio with figure that be at least low among woman with a college education and those who be not economically disadvantaged .
 while cts participant be highly educate they represent a range of socioeconomic stratum and thus the low number of pregnancy end in induce abortion or live birth for woman under age 45 at baseline may not reflect underreporting .
 furthermore among woman in the cts who be between the age of and 49 year at baseline report have have at least one induce abortion a percentage consistent with henshaw 's estimate that of woman in the united state will have have an induce abortion by the age of 45 year .
 the level of underreporting in study appear to be low and in addition any effect of underreporting in a prospective cohort study be expect to be nondifferential since at the time they report reproductive history woman be not aware of a future breast cancer diagnosis .
 it be unlikely that breast cancer in the population of woman in this study would be undiagnosed as the rate of screening in study be very high .
 ninety-four percent of woman 49 year of age at baseline and of woman year of age at baseline report have have at least one mammogram .
 the proportion of woman in those two age group who report have have a mammogram in the 2 year prior to baseline be and respectively .
 another potential limitation pertinent to this analysis be that datum on abortion miscarriage and tubal pregnancy be measure at baseline .
 it be possible that woman have experience another event during follow-up before breast cancer diagnosis .
 however when we stratify the analysis by age and 79 thereby compare group who would be much or little likely to experience an additional event respectively we find no difference in result .
 the current result may have limited generalizability .
 in addition to limited racial ethnic diversity relative to the general female population of the united state the cts be characterize by a high level of education and associate characteristic such as late age at first full-term pregnancy .
 nevertheless result provide far strong evidence that neither induce abortion nor miscarriage be associate with breast cancer risk and may help to resolve any remain uncertainty as to whether such a relationship exist .
 acknowledgment .
 the author would like to thank all the participant in the california teachers study cts .
 in addition we thank richard pinder sarah marshall and carmen vasquez who be responsible for the overall datum collection datum management and maintenance of the cohort and the member of the cts steering committee who be responsible for the formation and maintenance of the cohort within which this study be conduct but whom have not be include as author on the current article .
 hoda anton-culver rosemary cress dennis deapen daniel stram dee west and argyrios ziogas .
